0
IVUS-Net: An Intravascular Ultrasound Segmentation Network
2018-06-10
IntraVascular UltraSound (IVUS) is one of the most effective imaging
modalities that provides assistance to experts in order to diagnose and treat
cardiovascular diseases. We address a central problem in IVUS image analysis
with Fully Convolutional Network (FCN): automatically delineate the lumen and
media-adventitia borders in IVUS images, which is crucial to shorten the
diagnosis process or benefits a faster and more accurate 3D reconstruction of
the artery. Particularly, we propose an FCN architecture, called IVUS-Net,
followed by a post-processing contour extraction step, in order to
automatically segments the interior (lumen) and exterior (media-adventitia)
regions of the human arteries. We evaluated our IVUS-Net on the test set of a
standard publicly available dataset containing 326 IVUS B-mode images with two
measurements, namely Jaccard Measure (JM) and Hausdorff Distances (HD). The
evaluation result shows that IVUS-Net outperforms the state-of-the-art lumen
and media segmentation methods by 4% to 20% in terms of HD distance. IVUS-Net
performs well on images in the test set that contain a significant amount of
major artifacts such as bifurcations, shadows, and side branches that are not
common in the training set. Furthermore, using a modern GPU, IVUS-Net segments
each IVUS frame only in 0.15 seconds. The proposed work, to the best of our
knowledge, is the first deep learning based method for segmentation of both the
lumen and the media vessel walls in 20 MHz IVUS B-mode images that achieves the
best results without any manual intervention. Code is available at
https://github.com/Kulbear/ivus-segmentation-icsm2018

1
Soccer on Your Tabletop
2018-06-03
We present a system that transforms a monocular video of a soccer game into a
moving 3D reconstruction, in which the players and field can be rendered
interactively with a 3D viewer or through an Augmented Reality device. At the
heart of our paper is an approach to estimate the depth map of each player,
using a CNN that is trained on 3D player data extracted from soccer video
games. We compare with state of the art body pose and depth estimation
techniques, and show results on both synthetic ground truth benchmarks, and
real YouTube soccer footage.

2
3D Sketching using Multi-View Deep Volumetric Prediction
2017-07-26
Sketch-based modeling strives to bring the ease and immediacy of drawing to
the 3D world. However, while drawings are easy for humans to create, they are
very challenging for computers to interpret due to their sparsity and
ambiguity. We propose a data-driven approach that tackles this challenge by
learning to reconstruct 3D shapes from one or more drawings. At the core of our
approach is a deep convolutional neural network (CNN) that predicts occupancy
of a voxel grid from a line drawing. This CNN provides us with an initial 3D
reconstruction as soon as the user completes a single drawing of the desired
shape. We complement this single-view network with an updater CNN that refines
an existing prediction given a new drawing of the shape created from a novel
viewpoint. A key advantage of our approach is that we can apply the updater
iteratively to fuse information from an arbitrary number of viewpoints, without
requiring explicit stroke correspondences between the drawings. We train both
CNNs by rendering synthetic contour drawings from hand-modeled shape
collections as well as from procedurally-generated abstract shapes. Finally, we
integrate our CNNs in a minimal modeling interface that allows users to
seamlessly draw an object, rotate it to see its 3D reconstruction, and refine
it by re-drawing from another vantage point using the 3D reconstruction as
guidance. The main strengths of our approach are its robustness to freehand
bitmap drawings, its ability to adapt to different object categories, and the
continuum it offers between single-view and multi-view sketch-based modeling.

3
GPU Accelerated Cascade Hashing Image Matching for Large Scale 3D Reconstruction
2018-05-23
Image feature point matching is a key step in Structure from Motion(SFM).
However, it is becoming more and more time consuming because the number of
images is getting larger and larger. In this paper, we proposed a GPU
accelerated image matching method with improved Cascade Hashing. Firstly, we
propose a Disk-Memory-GPU data exchange strategy and optimize the load order of
data, so that the proposed method can deal with big data. Next, we parallelize
the Cascade Hashing method on GPU. An improved parallel reduction and an
improved parallel hashing ranking are proposed to fulfill this task. Finally,
extensive experiments show that our image matching is about 20 times faster
than SiftGPU on the same graphics card, nearly 100 times faster than the CPU
CasHash method and hundreds of times faster than the CPU Kd-Tree based matching
method. Further more, we introduce the epipolar constraint to the proposed
method, and use the epipolar geometry to guide the feature matching procedure,
which further reduces the matching cost.

4
Recurrent Neural Network for Learning DenseDepth and Ego-Motion from Video
2018-05-17
Learning-based, single-view depth estimation often generalizes poorly to
unseen datasets. While learning-based, two-frame depth estimation solves this
problem to some extent by learning to match features across frames, it performs
poorly at large depth where the uncertainty is high. There exists few
learning-based, multi-view depth estimation methods. In this paper, we present
a learning-based, multi-view dense depth map and ego-motion estimation method
that uses Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN). Our model is designed for 3D
reconstruction from video where the input frames are temporally correlated. It
is generalizable to single- or two-view dense depth estimation. Compared to
recent single- or two-view CNN-based depth estimation methods, our model
leverages more views and achieves more accurate results, especially at large
distances. Our method produces superior results to the state-of-the-art
learning-based, single- or two-view depth estimation methods on both indoor and
outdoor benchmark datasets. We also demonstrate that our method can even work
on extremely difficult sequences, such as endoscopic video, where none of the
assumptions (static scene, constant lighting, Lambertian reflection, etc.) from
traditional 3D reconstruction methods hold.

5
Predicting the Next Best View for 3D Mesh Refinement
2018-05-16
3D reconstruction is a core task in many applications such as robot
navigation or sites inspections. Finding the best poses to capture part of the
scene is one of the most challenging topic that goes under the name of Next
Best View. Recently, many volumetric methods have been proposed; they choose
the Next Best View by reasoning over a 3D voxelized space and by finding which
pose minimizes the uncertainty decoded into the voxels. Such methods are
effective, but they do not scale well since the underlaying representation
requires a huge amount of memory. In this paper we propose a novel mesh-based
approach which focuses on the worst reconstructed region of the environment
mesh. We define a photo-consistent index to evaluate the 3D mesh accuracy, and
an energy function over the worst regions of the mesh which takes into account
the mutual parallax with respect to the previous cameras, the angle of
incidence of the viewing ray to the surface and the visibility of the region.
We test our approach over a well known dataset and achieve state-of-the-art
results.

6
Full 3D Reconstruction of Transparent Objects
2018-05-09
Numerous techniques have been proposed for reconstructing 3D models for
opaque objects in past decades. However, none of them can be directly applied
to transparent objects. This paper presents a fully automatic approach for
reconstructing complete 3D shapes of transparent objects. Through positioning
an object on a turntable, its silhouettes and light refraction paths under
different viewing directions are captured. Then, starting from an initial rough
model generated from space carving, our algorithm progressively optimizes the
model under three constraints: surface and refraction normal consistency,
surface projection and silhouette consistency, and surface smoothness.
Experimental results on both synthetic and real objects demonstrate that our
method can successfully recover the complex shapes of transparent objects and
faithfully reproduce their light refraction properties.

7
Adaptive View Planning for Aerial 3D Reconstruction
2018-05-01
With the proliferation of small aerial vehicles, acquiring close up aerial imagery for high quality reconstruction of complex scenes is gaining importance. We present an adaptive view planning method to collect such images in an automated fashion. We start by sampling a small set of views to build a coarse proxy to the scene. We then present (i)~a method that builds a view manifold for view selection, and (ii) an algorithm to select a sparse set of views. The vehicle then visits these viewpoints to cover the scene, and the procedure is repeated until reconstruction quality converges or a desired level of quality is achieved. The view manifold provides an effective efficiency/quality compromise between using the entire 6 degree of freedom pose space and using a single view hemisphere to select the views. Our results show that, in contrast to existing "explore and exploit" methods which collect only two sets of views, reconstruction quality can be drastically improved by adding a third set. They also indicate that three rounds of data collection is sufficient even for very complex scenes. We compare our algorithm to existing methods in three challenging scenes. We require each algorithm to select the same number of views. Our algorithm generates views which produce the least reconstruction error.

8
Deep cross-domain building extraction for selective depth estimation from oblique aerial imagery
2018-04-23
With the technological advancements of aerial imagery and accurate 3d reconstruction of urban environments, more and more attention has been paid to the automated analyses of urban areas. In our work, we examine two important aspects that allow live analysis of building structures in city models given oblique aerial imagery, namely automatic building extraction with convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and selective real-time depth estimation from aerial imagery. We use transfer learning to train the Faster R-CNN method for real-time deep object detection, by combining a large ground-based dataset for urban scene understanding with a smaller number of images from an aerial dataset. We achieve an average precision (AP) of about 80% for the task of building extraction on a selected evaluation dataset. Our evaluation focuses on both dataset-specific learning and transfer learning. Furthermore, we present an algorithm that allows for multi-view depth estimation from aerial imagery in real-time. We adopt the semi-global matching (SGM) optimization strategy to preserve sharp edges at object boundaries. In combination with the Faster R-CNN, it allows a selective reconstruction of buildings, identified with regions of interest (RoIs), from oblique aerial imagery.

9
Integration of Absolute Orientation Measurements in the KinectFusion Reconstruction pipeline
2018-02-12
In this paper, we show how absolute orientation measurements provided by
low-cost but high-fidelity IMU sensors can be integrated into the KinectFusion
pipeline. We show that integration improves both runtime, robustness and
quality of the 3D reconstruction. In particular, we use this orientation data
to seed and regularize the ICP registration technique. We also present a
technique to filter the pairs of 3D matched points based on the distribution of
their distances. This filter is implemented efficiently on the GPU. Estimating
the distribution of the distances helps control the number of iterations
necessary for the convergence of the ICP algorithm. Finally, we show
experimental results that highlight improvements in robustness, a speed-up of
almost 12%, and a gain in tracking quality of 53% for the ATE metric on the
Freiburg benchmark.

10
Evaluation of Dense 3D Reconstruction from 2D Face Images in the Wild
2018-03-14
This paper investigates the evaluation of dense 3D face reconstruction from a
single 2D image in the wild. To this end, we organise a competition that
provides a new benchmark dataset that contains 2000 2D facial images of 135
subjects as well as their 3D ground truth face scans. In contrast to previous
competitions or challenges, the aim of this new benchmark dataset is to
evaluate the accuracy of a 3D dense face reconstruction algorithm using real,
accurate and high-resolution 3D ground truth face scans. In addition to the
dataset, we provide a standard protocol as well as a Python script for the
evaluation. Last, we report the results obtained by three state-of-the-art 3D
face reconstruction systems on the new benchmark dataset. The competition is
organised along with the 2018 13th IEEE Conference on Automatic Face & Gesture
Recognition.

11
Accurate Deep Direct Geo-Localization from Ground Imagery and Phone-Grade GPS
2018-04-20
One of the most critical topics in autonomous driving or ride-sharing
technology is to accurately localize vehicles in the world frame. In addition
to common multi-view camera systems, it usually also relies on industrial grade
sensors, such as LiDAR, differential GPS, high precision IMU, and etc. In this
paper, we develop an approach to provide an effective solution to this problem.
We propose a method to train a geo-spatial deep neural network (CNN+LSTM) to
predict accurate geo-locations (latitude and longitude) using only ordinary
ground imagery and low accuracy phone-grade GPS. We evaluate our approach on
the open dataset released during ACM Multimedia 2017 Grand Challenge. Having
ground truth locations for training, we are able to reach nearly lane-level
accuracy. We also evaluate the proposed method on our own collected images in
San Francisco downtown area often described as "downtown canyon" where consumer
GPS signals are extremely inaccurate. The results show the model can predict
quality locations that suffice in real business applications, such as
ride-sharing, only using phone-grade GPS. Unlike classic visual localization or
recent PoseNet-like methods that may work well in indoor environments or
small-scale outdoor environments, we avoid using a map or an SFM
(structure-from-motion) model at all. More importantly, the proposed method can
be scaled up without concerns over the potential failure of 3D reconstruction.

12
Liveness Detection Using Implicit 3D Features
2018-04-18
Spoofing attacks are a threat to modern face recognition systems. In this
work we present a simple yet effective liveness detection approach to enhance
2D face recognition methods and make them robust against spoofing attacks. We
show that the risk to spoofing attacks can be re- duced through the use of an
additional source of light, for example a flash. From a pair of input images
taken under different illumination, we define discriminative features that
implicitly contain facial three-dimensional in- formation. Furthermore, we show
that when multiple sources of light are considered, we are able to validate
which one has been activated. This makes possible the design of a highly secure
active-light authentication framework. Finally, further investigating the use
of 3D features without 3D reconstruction, we introduce an approximated
disparity-based implicit 3D feature obtained from an uncalibrated stereo-pair
of cameras. Valida- tion experiments show that the proposed methods produce
state-of-the-art results in challenging scenarios with nearly no feature
extraction latency.

13
Im2Avatar: Colorful 3D Reconstruction from a Single Image
2018-04-17
Existing works on single-image 3D reconstruction mainly focus on shape
recovery. In this work, we study a new problem, that is, simultaneously
recovering 3D shape and surface color from a single image, namely "colorful 3D
reconstruction". This problem is both challenging and intriguing because the
ability to infer textured 3D model from a single image is at the core of visual
understanding. Here, we propose an end-to-end trainable framework, Colorful
Voxel Network (CVN), to tackle this problem. Conditioned on a single 2D input,
CVN learns to decompose shape and surface color information of a 3D object into
a 3D shape branch and a surface color branch, respectively. Specifically, for
the shape recovery, we generate a shape volume with the state of its voxels
indicating occupancy. For the surface color recovery, we combine the strength
of appearance hallucination and geometric projection by concurrently learning a
regressed color volume and a 2D-to-3D flow volume, which are then fused into a
blended color volume. The final textured 3D model is obtained by sampling color
from the blended color volume at the positions of occupied voxels in the shape
volume. To handle the severe sparse volume representations, a novel loss
function, Mean Squared False Cross-Entropy Loss (MSFCEL), is designed.
Extensive experiments demonstrate that our approach achieves significant
improvement over baselines, and shows great generalization across diverse
object categories and arbitrary viewpoints.

14
What does 2D geometric information really tell us about 3D face shape?
2017-08-22
A face image contains geometric cues in the form of configurational information and contours that can be used to estimate 3D face shape. While it is clear that 3D reconstruction from 2D points is highly ambiguous if no further constraints are enforced, one might expect that the face-space constraint solves this problem. We show that this is not the case and that geometric information is an ambiguous cue. There are two sources for this ambiguity. The first is that, within the space of 3D face shapes, there are flexibility modes that remain when some parts of the face are fixed. The second occurs only under perspective projection and is a result of perspective transformation as camera distance varies. Two different faces, when viewed at different distances, can give rise to the same 2D geometry. To demonstrate these ambiguities, we develop new algorithms for fitting a 3D morphable model to 2D landmarks or contours under either orthographic or perspective projection and show how to compute flexibility modes for both cases. We show that both fitting problems can be posed as a separable nonlinear least squares problem and solved efficiently. We demonstrate both quantitatively and qualitatively that the ambiguity is present in reconstructions from geometric information alone but also in reconstructions from a state-of-the-art CNN-based method.

15
Video Based Reconstruction of 3D People Models
2018-03-13
This paper describes how to obtain accurate 3D body models and texture of
arbitrary people from a single, monocular video in which a person is moving.
Based on a parametric body model, we present a robust processing pipeline
achieving 3D model fits with 5mm accuracy also for clothed people. Our main
contribution is a method to nonrigidly deform the silhouette cones
corresponding to the dynamic human silhouettes, resulting in a visual hull in a
common reference frame that enables surface reconstruction. This enables
efficient estimation of a consensus 3D shape, texture and implanted animation
skeleton based on a large number of frames. We present evaluation results for a
number of test subjects and analyze overall performance. Requiring only a
smartphone or webcam, our method enables everyone to create their own fully
animatable digital double, e.g., for social VR applications or virtual try-on
for online fashion shopping.

16
Pix3D: Dataset and Methods for Single-Image 3D Shape Modeling
2018-04-12
We study 3D shape modeling from a single image and make contributions to it
in three aspects. First, we present Pix3D, a large-scale benchmark of diverse
image-shape pairs with pixel-level 2D-3D alignment. Pix3D has wide applications
in shape-related tasks including reconstruction, retrieval, viewpoint
estimation, etc. Building such a large-scale dataset, however, is highly
challenging; existing datasets either contain only synthetic data, or lack
precise alignment between 2D images and 3D shapes, or only have a small number
of images. Second, we calibrate the evaluation criteria for 3D shape
reconstruction through behavioral studies, and use them to objectively and
systematically benchmark cutting-edge reconstruction algorithms on Pix3D.
Third, we design a novel model that simultaneously performs 3D reconstruction
and pose estimation; our multi-task learning approach achieves state-of-the-art
performance on both tasks.

17
Nonlinear 3D Face Morphable Model
2018-04-11
As a classic statistical model of 3D facial shape and texture, 3D Morphable
Model (3DMM) is widely used in facial analysis, e.g., model fitting, image
synthesis. Conventional 3DMM is learned from a set of well-controlled 2D face
images with associated 3D face scans, and represented by two sets of PCA basis
functions. Due to the type and amount of training data, as well as the linear
bases, the representation power of 3DMM can be limited. To address these
problems, this paper proposes an innovative framework to learn a nonlinear 3DMM
model from a large set of unconstrained face images, without collecting 3D face
scans. Specifically, given a face image as input, a network encoder estimates
the projection, shape and texture parameters. Two decoders serve as the
nonlinear 3DMM to map from the shape and texture parameters to the 3D shape and
texture, respectively. With the projection parameter, 3D shape, and texture, a
novel analytically-differentiable rendering layer is designed to reconstruct
the original input face. The entire network is end-to-end trainable with only
weak supervision. We demonstrate the superior representation power of our
nonlinear 3DMM over its linear counterpart, and its contribution to face
alignment and 3D reconstruction.

18
3D Fluid Flow Estimation with Integrated Particle Reconstruction
2018-04-09
The standard approach to densely reconstruct the motion in a volume of fluid is to inject high-contrast tracer particles and record their motion with multiple high-speed cameras. Almost all existing work processes the acquired multi-view video in two separate steps, utilizing either a pure Eulerian or pure Lagrangian approach. Eulerian methods perform a voxel-based reconstruction of particles per time step, followed by 3D motion estimation, with some form of dense matching between the precomputed voxel grids from different time steps. In this sequential procedure, the first step cannot use temporal consistency considerations to support the reconstruction, while the second step has no access to the original, high-resolution image data. Alternatively, Lagrangian methods reconstruct an explicit, sparse set of particles and track the individual particles over time. Physical constraints can only be incorporated in a post-processing step when interpolating the particle tracks to a dense motion field. We show, for the first time, how to jointly reconstruct both the individual tracer particles and a dense 3D fluid motion field from the image data, using an integrated energy minimization. Our hybrid Lagrangian/Eulerian model reconstructs individual particles, and at the same time recovers a dense 3D motion field in the entire domain. Making particles explicit greatly reduces the memory consumption and allows one to use the high-res input images for matching. Whereas the dense motion field makes it possible to include physical a-priori constraints and account for the incompressibility and viscosity of the fluid. The method exhibits greatly (~70%) improved results over our recently published baseline with two separate steps for 3D reconstruction and motion estimation. Our results with only two time steps are comparable to those of sota tracking-based methods that require much longer sequences.

19
Photometric Stereo in Participating Media Considering Shape-Dependent Forward Scatter
2018-04-09
Images captured in participating media such as murky water, fog, or smoke are
degraded by scattered light. Thus, the use of traditional three-dimensional
(3D) reconstruction techniques in such environments is difficult. In this
paper, we propose a photometric stereo method for participating media. The
proposed method differs from previous studies with respect to modeling
shape-dependent forward scatter. In the proposed model, forward scatter is
described as an analytical form using lookup tables and is represented by
spatially-variant kernels. We also propose an approximation of a large-scale
dense matrix as a sparse matrix, which enables the removal of forward scatter.
Experiments with real and synthesized data demonstrate that the proposed method
improves 3D reconstruction in participating media.

20
MVSNet: Depth Inference for Unstructured Multi-view Stereo
2018-04-07
We present an end-to-end deep learning architecture for depth map inference
from multi-view images. In the network, we first extract deep visual image
features, and then build the 3D cost volume upon the reference camera frustum
via the differentiable homography warping. Next, we apply 3D convolutions to
regularize and regress the initial depth map, which is then refined with the
reference image to generate the final output. Our framework flexibly adapts
arbitrary N-view inputs using a variance-based cost metric that maps multiple
features into one cost feature. The proposed MVSNet is demonstrated on the
large-scale indoor DTU dataset. With simple post-processing, our method not
only significantly outperforms previous state-of-the-arts, but also is several
times faster in runtime. We also evaluate MVSNet on the complex outdoor Tanks
and Temples dataset, where our method ranks first before April 18, 2018 without
any fine-tuning, showing the strong generalization ability of MVSNet.

21
Learning Free-Form Deformations for 3D Object Reconstruction
2018-03-29
Representing 3D shape in deep learning frameworks in an accurate, efficient
and compact manner still remains an open challenge. Most existing work
addresses this issue by employing voxel-based representations. While these
approaches benefit greatly from advances in computer vision by generalizing 2D
convolutions to the 3D setting, they also have several considerable drawbacks.
The computational complexity of voxel-encodings grows cubically with the
resolution thus limiting such representations to low-resolution 3D
reconstruction. In an attempt to solve this problem, point cloud
representations have been proposed. Although point clouds are more efficient
than voxel representations as they only cover surfaces rather than volumes,
they do not encode detailed geometric information about relationships between
points. In this paper we propose a method to learn free-form deformations (FFD)
for the task of 3D reconstruction from a single image. By learning to deform
points sampled from a high-quality mesh, our trained model can be used to
produce arbitrarily dense point clouds or meshes with fine-grained geometry. We
evaluate our proposed framework on both synthetic and real-world data and
achieve state-of-the-art results on point-cloud and volumetric metrics.
Additionally, we qualitatively demonstrate its applicability to label
transferring for 3D semantic segmentation.

22
HDM-Net: Monocular Non-Rigid 3D Reconstruction with Learned Deformation Model
2018-03-27
Monocular dense 3D reconstruction of deformable objects is a hard ill-posed problem in computer vision. Current techniques either require dense correspondences and rely on motion and deformation cues, or assume a highly accurate reconstruction (referred to as a template) of at least a single frame given in advance and operate in the manner of non-rigid tracking. Accurate computation of dense point tracks often requires multiple frames and might be computationally expensive. Availability of a template is a very strong prior which restricts system operation to a pre-defined environment and scenarios. In this work, we propose a new hybrid approach for monocular non-rigid reconstruction which we call Hybrid Deformation Model Network (HDM-Net). In our approach, deformation model is learned by a deep neural network, with a combination of domain-specific loss functions. We train the network with multiple states of a non-rigidly deforming structure with a known shape at rest. HDM-Net learns different reconstruction cues including texture-dependent surface deformations, shading and contours. We show generalisability of HDM-Net to states not presented in the training dataset, with unseen textures and under new illumination conditions. Experiments with noisy data and a comparison with other methods demonstrate robustness and accuracy of the proposed approach and suggest possible application scenarios of the new technique in interventional diagnostics and augmented reality.

23
Learning to Reconstruct Texture-less Deformable Surfaces from a Single View
2018-03-23
Recent years have seen the development of mature solutions for reconstructing
deformable surfaces from a single image, provided that they are relatively
well-textured. By contrast, recovering the 3D shape of texture-less surfaces
remains an open problem, and essentially relates to Shape-from-Shading. In this
paper, we introduce a data-driven approach to this problem. We introduce a
general framework that can predict diverse 3D representations, such as meshes,
normals, and depth maps. Our experiments show that meshes are ill-suited to
handle texture-less 3D reconstruction in our context. Furthermore, we
demonstrate that our approach generalizes well to unseen objects, and that it
yields higher-quality reconstructions than a state-of-the-art SfS technique,
particularly in terms of normal estimates. Our reconstructions accurately model
the fine details of the surfaces, such as the creases of a T-Shirt worn by a
person.

24
Aligning Across Large Gaps in Time
2018-03-22
We present a method of temporally-invariant image registration for outdoor
scenes, with invariance across time of day, across seasonal variations, and
across decade-long periods, for low- and high-texture scenes. Our method can be
useful for applications in remote sensing, GPS-denied UAV localization, 3D
reconstruction, and many others. Our method leverages a recently proposed
approach to image registration, where fully-convolutional neural networks are
used to create feature maps which can be registered using the
Inverse-Composition Lucas-Kanade algorithm (ICLK). We show that invariance that
is learned from satellite imagery can be transferable to time-lapse data
captured by webcams mounted on buildings near ground-level.

25
Prioritized Multi-View Stereo Depth Map Generation Using Confidence Prediction
2018-03-22
In this work, we propose a novel approach to prioritize the depth map
computation of multi-view stereo (MVS) to obtain compact 3D point clouds of
high quality and completeness at low computational cost. Our prioritization
approach operates before the MVS algorithm is executed and consists of two
steps. In the first step, we aim to find a good set of matching partners for
each view. In the second step, we rank the resulting view clusters (i.e. key
views with matching partners) according to their impact on the fulfillment of
desired quality parameters such as completeness, ground resolution and
accuracy. Additional to geometric analysis, we use a novel machine learning
technique for training a confidence predictor. The purpose of this confidence
predictor is to estimate the chances of a successful depth reconstruction for
each pixel in each image for one specific MVS algorithm based on the RGB images
and the image constellation. The underlying machine learning technique does not
require any ground truth or manually labeled data for training, but instead
adapts ideas from depth map fusion for providing a supervision signal. The
trained confidence predictor allows us to evaluate the quality of image
constellations and their potential impact to the resulting 3D reconstruction
and thus builds a solid foundation for our prioritization approach. In our
experiments, we are thus able to reach more than 70% of the maximal reachable
quality fulfillment using only 5% of the available images as key views. For
evaluating our approach within and across different domains, we use two
completely different scenarios, i.e. cultural heritage preservation and
reconstruction of single family houses.

26
Progressive Structure from Motion
2018-03-20
Structure from Motion or the sparse 3D reconstruction out of individual
photos is a long studied topic in computer vision. Yet none of the existing
reconstruction pipelines fully addresses a progressive scenario where images
are only getting available during the reconstruction process and intermediate
results are delivered to the user. Incremental pipelines are capable of growing
a 3D model but often get stuck in local minima due to wrong (binding) decisions
taken based on incomplete information. Global pipelines on the other hand need
the access to the complete viewgraph and are not capable of delivering
intermediate results. In this paper we propose a new reconstruction pipeline
working in a progressive manner rather than in a batch processing scheme. The
pipeline is able to recover from failed reconstructions in early stages, avoids
to take binding decisions, delivers a progressive output and yet maintains the
capabilities of existing pipelines. We demonstrate and evaluate our method on
diverse challenging public and dedicated datasets including those with highly
symmetric structures and compare to the state of the art.

27
Consistent sets of lines with no colorful incidence
2018-03-16
We consider incidences among colored sets of lines in $\mathbb{R}^d$ and
examine whether the existence of certain concurrences between lines of $k$
colors force the existence of at least one concurrence between lines of $k+1$
colors. This question is relevant for problems in 3D reconstruction in computer
vision.

28
3D Reconstruction of Incomplete Archaeological Objects Using a Generative Adversarial Network
2017-11-17
We introduce a data-driven approach to aid the repairing and conservation of
archaeological objects: ORGAN, an object reconstruction generative adversarial
network (GAN). By using an encoder-decoder 3D deep neural network on a GAN
architecture, and combining two loss objectives: a completion loss and an
Improved Wasserstein GAN loss, we can train a network to effectively predict
the missing geometry of damaged objects. As archaeological objects can greatly
differ between them, the network is conditioned on a variable, which can be a
culture, a region or any metadata of the object. In our results, we show that
our method can recover most of the information from damaged objects, even in
cases where more than half of the voxels are missing, without producing many
errors.

29
Indoor Scene Understanding in 2.5/3D for Autonomous Agents: A Survey
2018-03-09
With the availability of low-cost and compact 2.5/3D visual sensing devices,
computer vision community is experiencing a growing interest in visual scene
understanding of indoor environments. This survey paper provides a
comprehensive background to this research topic. We begin with a historical
perspective, followed by popular 3D data representations and a comparative
analysis of available datasets. Before delving into the application specific
details, this survey provides a succinct introduction to the core technologies
that are the underlying methods extensively used in the literature. Afterwards,
we review the developed techniques according to a taxonomy based on the scene
understanding tasks. This covers holistic indoor scene understanding as well as
subtasks such as scene classification, object detection, pose estimation,
semantic segmentation, 3D reconstruction, saliency detection, physics-based
reasoning and affordance prediction. Later on, we summarize the performance
metrics used for evaluation in different tasks and a quantitative comparison
among the recent state-of-the-art techniques. We conclude this review with the
current challenges and an outlook towards the open research problems requiring
further investigation.

30
A Neural Network Approach to Missing Marker Reconstruction in Human Motion Capture
2018-03-07
Optical motion capture systems have become a widely used technology in
various fields, such as augmented reality, robotics, movie production, etc.
Such systems use a large number of cameras to triangulate the position of
optical markers.The marker positions are estimated with high accuracy. However,
especially when tracking articulated bodies, a fraction of the markers in each
timestep is missing from the reconstruction. In this paper, we propose to use a
neural network approach to learn how human motion is temporally and spatially
correlated, and reconstruct missing markers positions through this model. We
experiment with two different models, one LSTM-based and one time-window-based.
Both methods produce state-of-the-art results, while working online, as opposed
to most of the alternative methods, which require the complete sequence to be
known. The implementation is publicly available at
https://github.com/Svito-zar/NN-for-Missing-Marker-Reconstruction .

31
Methodology to analyze the accuracy of 3D objects reconstructed with collaborative robot based monocular LSD-SLAM
2018-03-06
SLAM systems are mainly applied for robot navigation while research on
feasibility for motion planning with SLAM for tasks like bin-picking, is
scarce. Accurate 3D reconstruction of objects and environments is important for
planning motion and computing optimal gripper pose to grasp objects. In this
work, we propose the methods to analyze the accuracy of a 3D environment
reconstructed using a LSD-SLAM system with a monocular camera mounted onto the
gripper of a collaborative robot. We discuss and propose a solution to the pose
space conversion problem. Finally, we present several criteria to analyze the
3D reconstruction accuracy. These could be used as guidelines to improve the
accuracy of 3D reconstructions with monocular LSD-SLAM and other SLAM based
solutions.

32
View Selection with Geometric Uncertainty Modeling
2017-03-31
Estimating positions of world points from features observed in images is a
key problem in 3D reconstruction, image mosaicking,simultaneous localization
and mapping and structure from motion. We consider a special instance in which
there is a dominant ground plane $\mathcal{G}$ viewed from a parallel viewing
plane $\mathcal{S}$ above it. Such instances commonly arise, for example, in
aerial photography. Consider a world point $g \in \mathcal{G}$ and its worst
case reconstruction uncertainty $\varepsilon(g,\mathcal{S})$ obtained by
merging \emph{all} possible views of $g$ chosen from $\mathcal{S}$. We first
show that one can pick two views $s_p$ and $s_q$ such that the uncertainty
$\varepsilon(g,\{s_p,s_q\})$ obtained using only these two views is almost as
good as (i.e. within a small constant factor of) $\varepsilon(g,\mathcal{S})$.
Next, we extend the result to the entire ground plane $\mathcal{G}$ and show
that one can pick a small subset of $\mathcal{S'} \subseteq \mathcal{S}$ (which
grows only linearly with the area of $\mathcal{G}$) and still obtain a constant
factor approximation, for every point $g \in \mathcal{G}$, to the minimum worst
case estimate obtained by merging all views in $\mathcal{S}$. Finally, we
present a multi-resolution view selection method which extends our techniques
to non-planar scenes. We show that the method can produce rich and accurate
dense reconstructions with a small number of views. Our results provide a view
selection mechanism with provable performance guarantees which can drastically
increase the speed of scene reconstruction algorithms. In addition to
theoretical results, we demonstrate their effectiveness in an application where
aerial imagery is used for monitoring farms and orchards.

33
Multi-Sensor Integration for Indoor 3D Reconstruction
2018-02-22
Outdoor maps and navigation information delivered by modern services and
technologies like Google Maps and Garmin navigators have revolutionized the
lifestyle of many people. Motivated by the desire for similar navigation
systems for indoor usage from consumers, advertisers, emergency
rescuers/responders, etc., many indoor environments such as shopping malls,
museums, casinos, airports, transit stations, offices, and schools need to be
mapped. Typically, the environment is first reconstructed by capturing many
point clouds from various stations and defining their spatial relationships.
Currently, there is a lack of an accurate, rigorous, and speedy method for
relating point clouds in indoor, urban, satellite-denied environments. This
thesis presents a novel and automatic way for fusing calibrated point clouds
obtained using a terrestrial laser scanner and the Microsoft Kinect by
integrating them with a low-cost inertial measurement unit. The developed
system, titled the Scannect, is the first joint static-kinematic indoor 3D
mapper.

34
Real-Time 3D Shape of Micro-Details
2018-02-16
Motivated by the growing demand for interactive environments, we propose an
accurate real-time 3D shape reconstruction technique. To provide a reliable 3D
reconstruction which is still a challenging task when dealing with real-world
applications, we integrate several components including (i) Photometric Stereo
(PS), (ii) perspective Cook-Torrance reflectance model that enables PS to deal
with a broad range of possible real-world object reflections, (iii) realistic
lightening situation, (iv) a Recurrent Optimization Network (RON) and finally
(v) heuristic Dijkstra Gaussian Mean Curvature (DGMC) initialization approach.
We demonstrate the potential benefits of our hybrid model by providing 3D shape
with highly-detailed information from micro-prints for the first time. All
real-world images are taken by a mobile phone camera under a simple setup as a
consumer-level equipment. In addition, complementary synthetic experiments
confirm the beneficial properties of our novel method and its superiority over
the state-of-the-art approaches.

35
Joint 3D Reconstruction of a Static Scene and Moving Objects
2018-02-13
We present a technique for simultaneous 3D reconstruction of static regions
and rigidly moving objects in a scene. An RGB-D frame is represented as a
collection of features, which are points and planes. We classify the features
into static and dynamic regions and grow separate maps, static and object maps,
for each of them. To robustly classify the features in each frame, we fuse
multiple RANSAC-based registration results obtained by registering different
groups of the features to different maps, including (1) all the features to the
static map, (2) all the features to each object map, and (3) subsets of the
features, each forming a segment, to each object map. This multi-group
registration approach is designed to overcome the following challenges: scenes
can be dominated by static regions, making object tracking more difficult; and
moving object might have larger pose variation between frames compared to the
static regions. We show qualitative results from indoor scenes with objects in
various shapes. The technique enables on-the-fly object model generation to be
used for robotic manipulation.

36
Feature Based Framework to Detect Diseases, Tumor, and Bleeding in Wireless Capsule Endoscopy
2018-01-27
Studying animal locomotion improves our understanding of motor control and
aids in the treatment of motor impairment. Mice are a premier model of human
disease and are the model system of choice for much of basic neuroscience. High
frame rates (250 Hz) are needed to quantify the kinematics of these running
rodents. Manual tracking, especially for multiple markers, becomes
time-consuming and impossible. Therefore, an automated method is necessary. We
propose a method to track the paws of the animal in the following manner:
first, segmenting all the possible paws based on color; second, classifying the
segmented objects using a support vector machine (SVM) and neural network (NN);
third, classifying the objects using the kinematic features of the running
animal, coupled with texture features from earlier frames; and finally,
detecting and handling collisions to assure the correctness of labelled paws.
The proposed method is validated in sixty 1,000 frame video sequences (4
seconds) captured by four cameras from five mice. The total sensitivity for
tracking of the front and hind paw is 99.70% using the SVM classifier and
99.76% using the NN classifier. In addition, we show the feasibility of 3D
reconstruction using the four camera system.

37
Collaborative Large-Scale Dense 3D Reconstruction with Online Inter-Agent Pose Optimisation
2018-01-25
Reconstructing dense, volumetric models of real-world 3D scenes is important for many tasks, but capturing large scenes can take significant time, and the risk of transient changes to the scene goes up as the capture time increases. These are good reasons to want instead to capture several smaller sub-scenes that can be joined to make the whole scene. Achieving this has traditionally been difficult: joining sub-scenes that may never have been viewed from the same angle requires a high-quality camera relocaliser that can cope with novel poses, and tracking drift in each sub-scene can prevent them from being joined to make a consistent overall scene. Recent advances, however, have significantly improved our ability to capture medium-sized sub-scenes with little to no tracking drift: real-time globally consistent reconstruction systems can close loops and re-integrate the scene surface on the fly, whilst new visual-inertial odometry approaches can significantly reduce tracking drift during live reconstruction. Moreover, high-quality regression forest-based relocalisers have recently been made more practical by the introduction of a method to allow them to be trained and used online. In this paper, we leverage these advances to present what to our knowledge is the first system to allow multiple users to collaborate interactively to reconstruct dense, voxel-based models of whole buildings using only consumer-grade hardware, a task that has traditionally been both time-consuming and dependent on the availability of specialised hardware. Using our system, an entire house or lab can be reconstructed in under half an hour and at a far lower cost than was previously possible.

38
3D Reconstruction in Canonical Co-ordinate Space from Arbitrarily Oriented 2D Images
2017-09-19
Limited capture range, and the requirement to provide high quality
initialization for optimization-based 2D/3D image registration methods, can
significantly degrade the performance of 3D image reconstruction and motion
compensation pipelines. Challenging clinical imaging scenarios, which contain
significant subject motion such as fetal in-utero imaging, complicate the 3D
image and volume reconstruction process. In this paper we present a learning
based image registration method capable of predicting 3D rigid transformations
of arbitrarily oriented 2D image slices, with respect to a learned canonical
atlas co-ordinate system. Only image slice intensity information is used to
perform registration and canonical alignment, no spatial transform
initialization is required. To find image transformations we utilize a
Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) architecture to learn the regression
function capable of mapping 2D image slices to a 3D canonical atlas space. We
extensively evaluate the effectiveness of our approach quantitatively on
simulated Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), fetal brain imagery with synthetic
motion and further demonstrate qualitative results on real fetal MRI data where
our method is integrated into a full reconstruction and motion compensation
pipeline. Our learning based registration achieves an average spatial
prediction error of 7 mm on simulated data and produces qualitatively improved
reconstructions for heavily moving fetuses with gestational ages of
approximately 20 weeks. Our model provides a general and computationally
efficient solution to the 2D/3D registration initialization problem and is
suitable for real-time scenarios.

39
Domain-Specific Face Synthesis for Video Face Recognition from a Single Sample Per Person
2018-01-06
The performance of still-to-video FR systems can decline significantly
because faces captured in unconstrained operational domain (OD) over multiple
video cameras have a different underlying data distribution compared to faces
captured under controlled conditions in the enrollment domain (ED) with a still
camera. This is particularly true when individuals are enrolled to the system
using a single reference still. To improve the robustness of these systems, it
is possible to augment the reference set by generating synthetic faces based on
the original still. However, without knowledge of the OD, many synthetic images
must be generated to account for all possible capture conditions. FR systems
may, therefore, require complex implementations and yield lower accuracy when
training on many less relevant images. This paper introduces an algorithm for
domain-specific face synthesis (DSFS) that exploits the representative
intra-class variation information available from the OD. Prior to operation, a
compact set of faces from unknown persons appearing in the OD is selected
through clustering in the captured condition space. The domain-specific
variations of these face images are projected onto the reference stills by
integrating an image-based face relighting technique inside the 3D
reconstruction framework. A compact set of synthetic faces is generated that
resemble individuals of interest under the capture conditions relevant to the
OD. In a particular implementation based on sparse representation
classification, the synthetic faces generated with the DSFS are employed to
form a cross-domain dictionary that account for structured sparsity.
Experimental results reveal that augmenting the reference gallery set of FR
systems using the proposed DSFS approach can provide a higher level of accuracy
compared to state-of-the-art approaches, with only a moderate increase in its
computational complexity.

40
Deep Learning Reconstruction for 9-View Dual Energy CT Baggage Scanner
2018-01-04
For homeland and transportation security applications, 2D X-ray explosive
detection system (EDS) have been widely used, but they have limitations in
recognizing 3D shape of the hidden objects. Among various types of 3D computed
tomography (CT) systems to address this issue, this paper is interested in a
stationary CT using fixed X-ray sources and detectors. However, due to the
limited number of projection views, analytic reconstruction algorithms produce
severe streaking artifacts. Inspired by recent success of deep learning
approach for sparse view CT reconstruction, here we propose a novel image and
sinogram domain deep learning architecture for 3D reconstruction from very
sparse view measurement. The algorithm has been tested with the real data from
a prototype 9-view dual energy stationary CT EDS carry-on baggage scanner
developed by GEMSS Medical Systems, Korea, which confirms the superior
reconstruction performance over the existing approaches.

41
A Learning-based Framework for Hybrid Depth-from-Defocus and Stereo Matching
2017-08-02
Depth from defocus (DfD) and stereo matching are two most studied passive
depth sensing schemes. The techniques are essentially complementary: DfD can
robustly handle repetitive textures that are problematic for stereo matching
whereas stereo matching is insensitive to defocus blurs and can handle large
depth range. In this paper, we present a unified learning-based technique to
conduct hybrid DfD and stereo matching. Our input is image triplets: a stereo
pair and a defocused image of one of the stereo views. We first apply
depth-guided light field rendering to construct a comprehensive training
dataset for such hybrid sensing setups. Next, we adopt the hourglass network
architecture to separately conduct depth inference from DfD and stereo.
Finally, we exploit different connection methods between the two separate
networks for integrating them into a unified solution to produce high fidelity
3D disparity maps. Comprehensive experiments on real and synthetic data show
that our new learning-based hybrid 3D sensing technique can significantly
improve accuracy and robustness in 3D reconstruction.

42
Geometry Processing of Conventionally Produced Mouse Brain Slice Images
2017-12-27
Brain mapping research in most neuroanatomical laboratories relies on
conventional processing techniques, which often introduce histological
artifacts such as tissue tears and tissue loss. In this paper we present
techniques and algorithms for automatic registration and 3D reconstruction of
conventionally produced mouse brain slices in a standardized atlas space. This
is achieved first by constructing a virtual 3D mouse brain model from annotated
slices of Allen Reference Atlas (ARA). Virtual re-slicing of the reconstructed
model generates ARA-based slice images corresponding to the microscopic images
of histological brain sections. These image pairs are aligned using a geometric
approach through contour images. Histological artifacts in the microscopic
images are detected and removed using Constrained Delaunay Triangulation before
performing global alignment. Finally, non-linear registration is performed by
solving Laplace's equation with Dirichlet boundary conditions. Our methods
provide significant improvements over previously reported registration
techniques for the tested slices in 3D space, especially on slices with
significant histological artifacts. Further, as an application we count the
number of neurons in various anatomical regions using a dataset of 51
microscopic slices from a single mouse brain. This work represents a
significant contribution to this subfield of neuroscience as it provides tools
to neuroanatomist for analyzing and processing histological data.

43
Monocular Dense 3D Reconstruction of a Complex Dynamic Scene from Two Perspective Frames
2017-08-15
This paper proposes a new approach for monocular dense 3D reconstruction of a
complex dynamic scene from two perspective frames. By applying superpixel
over-segmentation to the image, we model a generically dynamic (hence
non-rigid) scene with a piecewise planar and rigid approximation. In this way,
we reduce the dynamic reconstruction problem to a "3D jigsaw puzzle" problem
which takes pieces from an unorganized "soup of superpixels". We show that our
method provides an effective solution to the inherent relative scale ambiguity
in structure-from-motion. Since our method does not assume a template prior, or
per-object segmentation, or knowledge about the rigidity of the dynamic scene,
it is applicable to a wide range of scenarios. Extensive experiments on both
synthetic and real monocular sequences demonstrate the superiority of our
method compared with the state-of-the-art methods.

44
Accurate 3D Reconstruction of Dynamic Scenes from Monocular Image Sequences with Severe Occlusions
2017-12-20
The paper introduces an accurate solution to dense orthographic Non-Rigid
Structure from Motion (NRSfM) in scenarios with severe occlusions or, likewise,
inaccurate correspondences. We integrate a shape prior term into variational
optimisation framework. It allows to penalize irregularities of the
time-varying structure on the per-pixel level if correspondence quality
indicator such as an occlusion tensor is available. We make a realistic
assumption that several non-occluded views of the scene are sufficient to
estimate an initial shape prior, though the entire observed scene may exhibit
non-rigid deformations. Experiments on synthetic and real image data show that
the proposed framework significantly outperforms state of the art methods for
correspondence establishment in combination with the state of the art NRSfM
methods. Together with the profound insights into optimisation methods,
implementation details for heterogeneous platforms are provided.

45
Real-time 3D Reconstruction on Construction Site using Visual SLAM and UAV
2017-12-19
3D reconstruction can be used as a platform to monitor the performance of
activities on construction site, such as construction progress monitoring,
structure inspection and post-disaster rescue. Comparing to other sensors, RGB
image has the advantages of low-cost, texture rich and easy to implement that
has been used as the primary method for 3D reconstruction in construction
industry. However, the image-based 3D reconstruction always requires extended
time to acquire and/or to process the image data, which limits its application
on time critical projects. Recent progress in Visual Simultaneous Localization
and Mapping (SLAM) make it possible to reconstruct a 3D map of construction
site in real-time. Integrated with Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV), the obstacles
areas that are inaccessible for the ground equipment can also be sensed.
Despite these advantages of visual SLAM and UAV, until now, such technique has
not been fully investigated on construction site. Therefore, the objective of
this research is to present a pilot study of using visual SLAM and UAV for
real-time construction site reconstruction. The system architecture and the
experimental setup are introduced, and the preliminary results and the
potential applications using Visual SLAM and UAV on construction site are
discussed.

46
A Performance Evaluation of Local Features for Image Based 3D Reconstruction
2017-12-14
This paper performs a comprehensive and comparative evaluation of the state
of the art local features for the task of image based 3D reconstruction. The
evaluated local features cover the recently developed ones by using powerful
machine learning techniques and the elaborately designed handcrafted features.
To obtain a comprehensive evaluation, we choose to include both float type
features and binary ones. Meanwhile, two kinds of datasets have been used in
this evaluation. One is a dataset of many different scene types with
groundtruth 3D points, containing images of different scenes captured at fixed
positions, for quantitative performance evaluation of different local features
in the controlled image capturing situations. The other dataset contains
Internet scale image sets of several landmarks with a lot of unrelated images,
which is used for qualitative performance evaluation of different local
features in the free image collection situations. Our experimental results show
that binary features are competent to reconstruct scenes from controlled image
sequences with only a fraction of processing time compared to use float type
features. However, for the case of large scale image set with many distracting
images, float type features show a clear advantage over binary ones.

47
An Integrated Platform for Live 3D Human Reconstruction and Motion Capturing
2017-12-08
The latest developments in 3D capturing, processing, and rendering provide
means to unlock novel 3D application pathways. The main elements of an
integrated platform, which target tele-immersion and future 3D applications,
are described in this paper, addressing the tasks of real-time capturing,
robust 3D human shape/appearance reconstruction, and skeleton-based motion
tracking. More specifically, initially, the details of a multiple RGB-depth
(RGB-D) capturing system are given, along with a novel sensors' calibration
method. A robust, fast reconstruction method from multiple RGB-D streams is
then proposed, based on an enhanced variation of the volumetric Fourier
transform-based method, parallelized on the Graphics Processing Unit, and
accompanied with an appropriate texture-mapping algorithm. On top of that,
given the lack of relevant objective evaluation methods, a novel framework is
proposed for the quantitative evaluation of real-time 3D reconstruction
systems. Finally, a generic, multiple depth stream-based method for accurate
real-time human skeleton tracking is proposed. Detailed experimental results
with multi-Kinect2 data sets verify the validity of our arguments and the
effectiveness of the proposed system and methodologies.

48
An Error Detection and Correction Framework for Connectomics
2017-08-08
We define and study error detection and correction tasks that are useful for
3D reconstruction of neurons from electron microscopic imagery, and for image
segmentation more generally. Both tasks take as input the raw image and a
binary mask representing a candidate object. For the error detection task, the
desired output is a map of split and merge errors in the object. For the error
correction task, the desired output is the true object. We call this object
mask pruning, because the candidate object mask is assumed to be a superset of
the true object. We train multiscale 3D convolutional networks to perform both
tasks. We find that the error-detecting net can achieve high accuracy. The
accuracy of the error-correcting net is enhanced if its input object mask is
"advice" (union of erroneous objects) from the error-detecting net.

49
Small Drone Field Experiment: Data Collection & Processing
2017-11-29
Following an initiative formalized in April 2016 formally known as ARL West
between the U.S. Army Research Laboratory (ARL) and University of Southern
California's Institute for Creative Technologies (USC ICT), a field experiment
was coordinated and executed in the summer of 2016 by ARL, USC ICT, and
Headwall Photonics. The purpose was to image part of the USC main campus in Los
Angeles, USA, using two portable COTS (commercial off the shelf) aerial drone
solutions for data acquisition, for photogrammetry (3D reconstruction from
images), and fusion of hyperspectral data with the recovered set of 3D point
clouds representing the target area. The research aims for determining the
viability of having a machine capable of segmenting the target area into key
material classes (e.g., manmade structures, live vegetation, water) for use in
multiple purposes, to include providing the user with a more accurate scene
understanding and enabling the unsupervised automatic sampling of meaningful
material classes from the target area for adaptive semi-supervised machine
learning. In the latter, a target set library may be used for automatic machine
training with data of local material classes, as an example, to increase the
prediction chances of machines recognizing targets. The field experiment and
associated data post processing approach to correct for reflectance,
geo-rectify, recover the area's dense point clouds from images, register
spectral with elevation properties of scene surfaces from the independently
collected datasets, and generate the desired scene segmented maps are
discussed. Lessons learned from the experience are also highlighted throughout
the paper.

50
Image2Mesh: A Learning Framework for Single Image 3D Reconstruction
2017-11-29
One challenge that remains open in 3D deep learning is how to efficiently
represent 3D data to feed deep networks. Recent works have relied on volumetric
or point cloud representations, but such approaches suffer from a number of
issues such as computational complexity, unordered data, and lack of finer
geometry. This paper demonstrates that a mesh representation (i.e. vertices and
faces to form polygonal surfaces) is able to capture fine-grained geometry for
3D reconstruction tasks. A mesh however is also unstructured data similar to
point clouds. We address this problem by proposing a learning framework to
infer the parameters of a compact mesh representation rather than learning from
the mesh itself. This compact representation encodes a mesh using free-form
deformation and a sparse linear combination of models allowing us to
reconstruct 3D meshes from single images. In contrast to prior work, we do not
rely on silhouettes and landmarks to perform 3D reconstruction. We evaluate our
method on synthetic and real-world datasets with very promising results. Our
framework efficiently reconstructs 3D objects in a low-dimensional way while
preserving its important geometrical aspects.

51
Highlighting objects of interest in an image by integrating saliency and depth
2017-11-28
Stereo images have been captured primarily for 3D reconstruction in the past.
However, the depth information acquired from stereo can also be used along with
saliency to highlight certain objects in a scene. This approach can be used to
make still images more interesting to look at, and highlight objects of
interest in the scene. We introduce this novel direction in this paper, and
discuss the theoretical framework behind the approach. Even though we use depth
from stereo in this work, our approach is applicable to depth data acquired
from any sensor modality. Experimental results on both indoor and outdoor
scenes demonstrate the benefits of our algorithm.

52
Unsupervised 3D Reconstruction from a Single Image via Adversarial Learning
2017-11-26
Recent advancements in deep learning opened new opportunities for learning a
high-quality 3D model from a single 2D image given sufficient training on
large-scale data sets. However, the significant imbalance between available
amount of images and 3D models, and the limited availability of labeled 2D
image data (i.e. manually annotated pairs between images and their
corresponding 3D models), severely impacts the training of most supervised deep
learning methods in practice. In this paper, driven by a novel design of
adversarial networks, we have developed an unsupervised learning paradigm to
reconstruct 3D models from a single 2D image, which is free of manually
annotated pairwise input image and its associated 3D model. Particularly, the
paradigm begins with training an adaption network via autoencoder with
adversarial loss, which embeds unpaired 2D synthesized image domain with real
world image domain to a shared latent vector space. Then, we jointly train a 3D
deconvolutional network to transform the latent vector space to the 3D object
space together with the embedding process. Our experiments verify our network's
robust and superior performance in handling 3D volumetric object generation
from a single 2D image.

53
Flight Dynamics-based Recovery of a UAV Trajectory using Ground Cameras
2016-12-01
We propose a new method to estimate the 6-dof trajectory of a flying object
such as a quadrotor UAV within a 3D airspace monitored using multiple fixed
ground cameras. It is based on a new structure from motion formulation for the
3D reconstruction of a single moving point with known motion dynamics. Our main
contribution is a new bundle adjustment procedure which in addition to
optimizing the camera poses, regularizes the point trajectory using a prior
based on motion dynamics (or specifically flight dynamics). Furthermore, we can
infer the underlying control input sent to the UAV's autopilot that determined
its flight trajectory.
  Our method requires neither perfect single-view tracking nor appearance
matching across views. For robustness, we allow the tracker to generate
multiple detections per frame in each video. The true detections and the data
association across videos is estimated using robust multi-view triangulation
and subsequently refined during our bundle adjustment procedure. Quantitative
evaluation on simulated data and experiments on real videos from indoor and
outdoor scenes demonstrates the effectiveness of our method.

54
Automatic Tool Landmark Detection for Stereo Vision in Robot-Assisted Retinal Surgery
2017-09-17
Computer vision and robotics are being increasingly applied in medical
interventions. Especially in interventions where extreme precision is required
they could make a difference. One such application is robot-assisted retinal
microsurgery. In recent works, such interventions are conducted under a
stereo-microscope, and with a robot-controlled surgical tool. The
complementarity of computer vision and robotics has however not yet been fully
exploited. In order to improve the robot control we are interested in 3D
reconstruction of the anatomy and in automatic tool localization using a stereo
microscope. In this paper, we solve this problem for the first time using a
single pipeline, starting from uncalibrated cameras to reach metric 3D
reconstruction and registration, in retinal microsurgery. The key ingredients
of our method are: (a) surgical tool landmark detection, and (b) 3D
reconstruction with the stereo microscope, using the detected landmarks. To
address the former, we propose a novel deep learning method that detects and
recognizes keypoints in high definition images at higher than real-time speed.
We use the detected 2D keypoints along with their corresponding 3D coordinates
obtained from the robot sensors to calibrate the stereo microscope using an
affine projection model. We design an online 3D reconstruction pipeline that
makes use of smoothness constraints and performs robot-to-camera registration.
The entire pipeline is extensively validated on open-sky porcine eye sequences.
Quantitative and qualitative results are presented for all steps.

55
Learning a Hierarchical Latent-Variable Model of 3D Shapes
2017-05-17
We propose the Variational Shape Learner (VSL), a generative model that
learns the underlying structure of voxelized 3D shapes in an unsupervised
fashion. Through the use of skip-connections, our model can successfully learn
and infer a latent, hierarchical representation of objects. Furthermore,
realistic 3D objects can be easily generated by sampling the VSL's latent
probabilistic manifold. We show that our generative model can be trained
end-to-end from 2D images to perform single image 3D model retrieval.
Experiments show, both quantitatively and qualitatively, the improved
generalization of our proposed model over a range of tasks, performing better
or comparable to various state-of-the-art alternatives.

56
End-to-end 3D shape inverse rendering of different classes of objects from a single input image
2017-11-11
In this paper a semi-supervised deep framework is proposed for the problem of
3D shape inverse rendering from a single 2D input image. The main structure of
proposed framework consists of unsupervised pre-trained components which
significantly reduce the need to labeled data for training the whole framework.
using labeled data has the advantage of achieving to accurate results without
the need to predefined assumptions about image formation process. Three main
components are used in the proposed network: an encoder which maps 2D input
image to a representation space, a 3D decoder which decodes a representation to
a 3D structure and a mapping component in order to map 2D to 3D representation.
The only part that needs label for training is the mapping part with not too
many parameters. The other components in the network can be pre-trained
unsupervised using only 2D images or 3D data in each case. The way of
reconstructing 3D shapes in the decoder component, inspired by the model based
methods for 3D reconstruction, maps a low dimensional representation to 3D
shape space with the advantage of extracting the basis vectors of shape space
from training data itself and is not restricted to a small set of examples as
used in predefined models. Therefore, the proposed framework deals directly
with coordinate values of the point cloud representation which leads to achieve
dense 3D shapes in the output. The experimental results on several benchmark
datasets of objects and human faces and comparing with recent similar methods
shows the power of proposed network in recovering more details from single 2D
images.

57
MarrNet: 3D Shape Reconstruction via 2.5D Sketches
2017-11-08
3D object reconstruction from a single image is a highly under-determined
problem, requiring strong prior knowledge of plausible 3D shapes. This
introduces challenges for learning-based approaches, as 3D object annotations
are scarce in real images. Previous work chose to train on synthetic data with
ground truth 3D information, but suffered from domain adaptation when tested on
real data. In this work, we propose MarrNet, an end-to-end trainable model that
sequentially estimates 2.5D sketches and 3D object shape. Our disentangled,
two-step formulation has three advantages. First, compared to full 3D shape,
2.5D sketches are much easier to be recovered from a 2D image; models that
recover 2.5D sketches are also more likely to transfer from synthetic to real
data. Second, for 3D reconstruction from 2.5D sketches, systems can learn
purely from synthetic data. This is because we can easily render realistic 2.5D
sketches without modeling object appearance variations in real images,
including lighting, texture, etc. This further relieves the domain adaptation
problem. Third, we derive differentiable projective functions from 3D shape to
2.5D sketches; the framework is therefore end-to-end trainable on real images,
requiring no human annotations. Our model achieves state-of-the-art performance
on 3D shape reconstruction.

58
OctNetFusion: Learning Depth Fusion from Data
2017-04-04
In this paper, we present a learning based approach to depth fusion, i.e.,
dense 3D reconstruction from multiple depth images. The most common approach to
depth fusion is based on averaging truncated signed distance functions, which
was originally proposed by Curless and Levoy in 1996. While this method is
simple and provides great results, it is not able to reconstruct (partially)
occluded surfaces and requires a large number frames to filter out sensor noise
and outliers. Motivated by the availability of large 3D model repositories and
recent advances in deep learning, we present a novel 3D CNN architecture that
learns to predict an implicit surface representation from the input depth maps.
Our learning based method significantly outperforms the traditional volumetric
fusion approach in terms of noise reduction and outlier suppression. By
learning the structure of real world 3D objects and scenes, our approach is
further able to reconstruct occluded regions and to fill in gaps in the
reconstruction. We demonstrate that our learning based approach outperforms
both vanilla TSDF fusion as well as TV-L1 fusion on the task of volumetric
fusion. Further, we demonstrate state-of-the-art 3D shape completion results.

59
Intel RealSense Stereoscopic Depth Cameras
2017-05-16
We present a comprehensive overview of the stereoscopic Intel RealSense RGBD
imaging systems. We discuss these systems' mode-of-operation, functional
behavior and include models of their expected performance, shortcomings, and
limitations. We provide information about the systems' optical characteristics,
their correlation algorithms, and how these properties can affect different
applications, including 3D reconstruction and gesture recognition. Our
discussion covers the Intel RealSense R200 and the Intel RealSense D400
(formally RS400).

60
Large-Scale 3D Shape Reconstruction and Segmentation from ShapeNet Core55
2017-10-17
We introduce a large-scale 3D shape understanding benchmark using data and
annotation from ShapeNet 3D object database. The benchmark consists of two
tasks: part-level segmentation of 3D shapes and 3D reconstruction from single
view images. Ten teams have participated in the challenge and the best
performing teams have outperformed state-of-the-art approaches on both tasks. A
few novel deep learning architectures have been proposed on various 3D
representations on both tasks. We report the techniques used by each team and
the corresponding performances. In addition, we summarize the major discoveries
from the reported results and possible trends for the future work in the field.

61
Real-Time Automatic Fetal Brain Extraction in Fetal MRI by Deep Learning
2017-10-25
Brain segmentation is a fundamental first step in neuroimage analysis. In the
case of fetal MRI, it is particularly challenging and important due to the
arbitrary orientation of the fetus, organs that surround the fetal head, and
intermittent fetal motion. Several promising methods have been proposed but are
limited in their performance in challenging cases and in real-time
segmentation. We aimed to develop a fully automatic segmentation method that
independently segments sections of the fetal brain in 2D fetal MRI slices in
real-time. To this end, we developed and evaluated a deep fully convolutional
neural network based on 2D U-net and autocontext, and compared it to two
alternative fast methods based on 1) a voxelwise fully convolutional network
and 2) a method based on SIFT features, random forest and conditional random
field. We trained the networks with manual brain masks on 250 stacks of
training images, and tested on 17 stacks of normal fetal brain images as well
as 18 stacks of extremely challenging cases based on extreme motion, noise, and
severely abnormal brain shape. Experimental results show that our U-net
approach outperformed the other methods and achieved average Dice metrics of
96.52% and 78.83% in the normal and challenging test sets, respectively. With
an unprecedented performance and a test run time of about 1 second, our network
can be used to segment the fetal brain in real-time while fetal MRI slices are
being acquired. This can enable real-time motion tracking, motion detection,
and 3D reconstruction of fetal brain MRI.

62
Drought Stress Classification using 3D Plant Models
2017-09-21
Quantification of physiological changes in plants can capture different
drought mechanisms and assist in selection of tolerant varieties in a high
throughput manner. In this context, an accurate 3D model of plant canopy
provides a reliable representation for drought stress characterization in
contrast to using 2D images. In this paper, we propose a novel end-to-end
pipeline including 3D reconstruction, segmentation and feature extraction,
leveraging deep neural networks at various stages, for drought stress study. To
overcome the high degree of self-similarities and self-occlusions in plant
canopy, prior knowledge of leaf shape based on features from deep siamese
network are used to construct an accurate 3D model using structure from motion
on wheat plants. The drought stress is characterized with a deep network based
feature aggregation. We compare the proposed methodology on several
descriptors, and show that the network outperforms conventional methods.

63
Dense RGB-D semantic mapping with Pixel-Voxel neural network
2017-09-30
For intelligent robotics applications, extending 3D mapping to 3D semantic
mapping enables robots to, not only localize themselves with respect to the
scene's geometrical features but also simultaneously understand the higher
level meaning of the scene contexts. Most previous methods focus on geometric
3D reconstruction and scene understanding independently notwithstanding the
fact that joint estimation can boost the accuracy of the semantic mapping. In
this paper, a dense RGB-D semantic mapping system with a Pixel-Voxel network is
proposed, which can perform dense 3D mapping while simultaneously recognizing
and semantically labelling each point in the 3D map. The proposed Pixel-Voxel
network obtains global context information by using PixelNet to exploit the RGB
image and meanwhile, preserves accurate local shape information by using
VoxelNet to exploit the corresponding 3D point cloud. Unlike the existing
architecture that fuses score maps from different models with equal weights, we
proposed a Softmax weighted fusion stack that adaptively learns the varying
contributions of PixelNet and VoxelNet, and fuses the score maps of the two
models according to their respective confidence levels. The proposed
Pixel-Voxel network achieves the state-of-the-art semantic segmentation
performance on the SUN RGB-D benchmark dataset. The runtime of the proposed
system can be boosted to 11-12Hz, enabling near to real-time performance using
an i7 8-cores PC with Titan X GPU.

64
Semantic 3D Reconstruction with Finite Element Bases
2017-10-04
We propose a novel framework for the discretisation of multi-label problems
on arbitrary, continuous domains. Our work bridges the gap between general FEM
discretisations, and labeling problems that arise in a variety of computer
vision tasks, including for instance those derived from the generalised Potts
model. Starting from the popular formulation of labeling as a convex relaxation
by functional lifting, we show that FEM discretisation is valid for the most
general case, where the regulariser is anisotropic and non-metric. While our
findings are generic and applicable to different vision problems, we
demonstrate their practical implementation in the context of semantic 3D
reconstruction, where such regularisers have proved particularly beneficial.
The proposed FEM approach leads to a smaller memory footprint as well as faster
computation, and it constitutes a very simple way to enable variable, adaptive
resolution within the same model.

65
Weakly supervised 3D Reconstruction with Adversarial Constraint
2017-05-31
Supervised 3D reconstruction has witnessed a significant progress through the
use of deep neural networks. However, this increase in performance requires
large scale annotations of 2D/3D data. In this paper, we explore inexpensive 2D
supervision as an alternative for expensive 3D CAD annotation. Specifically, we
use foreground masks as weak supervision through a raytrace pooling layer that
enables perspective projection and backpropagation. Additionally, since the 3D
reconstruction from masks is an ill posed problem, we propose to constrain the
3D reconstruction to the manifold of unlabeled realistic 3D shapes that match
mask observations. We demonstrate that learning a log-barrier solution to this
constrained optimization problem resembles the GAN objective, enabling the use
of existing tools for training GANs. We evaluate and analyze the manifold
constrained reconstruction on various datasets for single and multi-view
reconstruction of both synthetic and real images.

66
3D Shape Reconstruction from Sketches via Multi-view Convolutional Networks
2017-07-20
We propose a method for reconstructing 3D shapes from 2D sketches in the form
of line drawings. Our method takes as input a single sketch, or multiple
sketches, and outputs a dense point cloud representing a 3D reconstruction of
the input sketch(es). The point cloud is then converted into a polygon mesh. At
the heart of our method lies a deep, encoder-decoder network. The encoder
converts the sketch into a compact representation encoding shape information.
The decoder converts this representation into depth and normal maps capturing
the underlying surface from several output viewpoints. The multi-view maps are
then consolidated into a 3D point cloud by solving an optimization problem that
fuses depth and normals across all viewpoints. Based on our experiments,
compared to other methods, such as volumetric networks, our architecture offers
several advantages, including more faithful reconstruction, higher output
surface resolution, better preservation of topology and shape structure.

67
LabelFusion: A Pipeline for Generating Ground Truth Labels for Real RGBD Data of Cluttered Scenes
2017-07-15
Deep neural network (DNN) architectures have been shown to outperform
traditional pipelines for object segmentation and pose estimation using RGBD
data, but the performance of these DNN pipelines is directly tied to how
representative the training data is of the true data. Hence a key requirement
for employing these methods in practice is to have a large set of labeled data
for your specific robotic manipulation task, a requirement that is not
generally satisfied by existing datasets. In this paper we develop a pipeline
to rapidly generate high quality RGBD data with pixelwise labels and object
poses. We use an RGBD camera to collect video of a scene from multiple
viewpoints and leverage existing reconstruction techniques to produce a 3D
dense reconstruction. We label the 3D reconstruction using a human assisted
ICP-fitting of object meshes. By reprojecting the results of labeling the 3D
scene we can produce labels for each RGBD image of the scene. This pipeline
enabled us to collect over 1,000,000 labeled object instances in just a few
days. We use this dataset to answer questions related to how much training data
is required, and of what quality the data must be, to achieve high performance
from a DNN architecture.

68
3D Reconstruction with Low Resolution, Small Baseline and High Radial Distortion Stereo Images
2017-09-19
In this paper we analyze and compare approaches for 3D reconstruction from
low-resolution (250x250), high radial distortion stereo images, which are
acquired with small baseline (approximately 1mm). These images are acquired
with the system NanEye Stereo manufactured by CMOSIS/AWAIBA. These stereo
cameras have also small apertures, which means that high levels of illumination
are required. The goal was to develop an approach yielding accurate
reconstructions, with a low computational cost, i.e., avoiding non-linear
numerical optimization algorithms. In particular we focused on the analysis and
comparison of radial distortion models. To perform the analysis and comparison,
we defined a baseline method based on available software and methods, such as
the Bouguet toolbox [2] or the Computer Vision Toolbox from Matlab. The
approaches tested were based on the use of the polynomial model of radial
distortion, and on the application of the division model. The issue of the
center of distortion was also addressed within the framework of the application
of the division model. We concluded that the division model with a single
radial distortion parameter has limitations.

69
A LBP Based Correspondence Identification Scheme for Multi-view Sensing Network
2017-09-16
In this paper, we describes a correspondence identification method between
two-views of regular RGB camera that can be run in real-time. The basic idea is
first applying normalized cross correlation to retrieve a sparse set of
matching pairs from image pair. Then loopy belief propagation scheme is applied
to the the set of possible candidates to densely identify correspondences from
different views. The experiment results demonstrate superb accuracy and
precision that outperform the state-of-the-art in the computer vision field.
Meanwhile, the implementation is simple enough that can be optimized for
real-time performance. We have given the detailed comparison of existing
approaches and show that this method can enable various practical applications
from 3D reconstruction to image search.

70
Efficient Online Surface Correction for Real-time Large-Scale 3D Reconstruction
2017-09-12
State-of-the-art methods for large-scale 3D reconstruction from RGB-D sensors
usually reduce drift in camera tracking by globally optimizing the estimated
camera poses in real-time without simultaneously updating the reconstructed
surface on pose changes. We propose an efficient on-the-fly surface correction
method for globally consistent dense 3D reconstruction of large-scale scenes.
Our approach uses a dense Visual RGB-D SLAM system that estimates the camera
motion in real-time on a CPU and refines it in a global pose graph
optimization. Consecutive RGB-D frames are locally fused into keyframes, which
are incorporated into a sparse voxel hashed Signed Distance Field (SDF) on the
GPU. On pose graph updates, the SDF volume is corrected on-the-fly using a
novel keyframe re-integration strategy with reduced GPU-host streaming. We
demonstrate in an extensive quantitative evaluation that our method is up to
93% more runtime efficient compared to the state-of-the-art and requires
significantly less memory, with only negligible loss of surface quality.
Overall, our system requires only a single GPU and allows for real-time surface
correction of large environments.

71
Joint Layout Estimation and Global Multi-View Registration for Indoor Reconstruction
2017-04-25
In this paper, we propose a novel method to jointly solve scene layout
estimation and global registration problems for accurate indoor 3D
reconstruction. Given a sequence of range data, we first build a set of scene
fragments using KinectFusion and register them through pose graph optimization.
Afterwards, we alternate between layout estimation and layout-based global
registration processes in iterative fashion to complement each other. We
extract the scene layout through hierarchical agglomerative clustering and
energy-based multi-model fitting in consideration of noisy measurements. Having
the estimated scene layout in one hand, we register all the range data through
the global iterative closest point algorithm where the positions of 3D points
that belong to the layout such as walls and a ceiling are constrained to be
close to the layout. We experimentally verify the proposed method with the
publicly available synthetic and real-world datasets in both quantitative and
qualitative ways.

72
Complete End-To-End Low Cost Solution To a 3D Scanning System with Integrated Turntable
2017-09-03
3D reconstruction is a technique used in computer vision which has a wide
range of applications in areas like object recognition, city modelling, virtual
reality, physical simulations, video games and special effects. Previously, to
perform a 3D reconstruction, specialized hardwares were required. Such systems
were often very expensive and was only available for industrial or research
purpose. With the rise of the availability of high-quality low cost 3D sensors,
it is now possible to design inexpensive complete 3D scanning systems. The
objective of this work was to design an acquisition and processing system that
can perform 3D scanning and reconstruction of objects seamlessly. In addition,
the goal of this work also included making the 3D scanning process fully
automated by building and integrating a turntable alongside the software. This
means the user can perform a full 3D scan only by a press of a few buttons from
our dedicated graphical user interface. Three main steps were followed to go
from acquisition of point clouds to the finished reconstructed 3D model. First,
our system acquires point cloud data of a person/object using inexpensive
camera sensor. Second, align and convert the acquired point cloud data into a
watertight mesh of good quality. Third, export the reconstructed model to a 3D
printer to obtain a proper 3D print of the model.

73
Fast Landmark Localization with 3D Component Reconstruction and CNN for Cross-Pose Recognition
2017-08-31
Two approaches are proposed for cross-pose face recognition, one is based on
the 3D reconstruction of facial components and the other is based on the deep
Convolutional Neural Network (CNN). Unlike most 3D approaches that consider
holistic faces, the proposed approach considers 3D facial components. It
segments a 2D gallery face into components, reconstructs the 3D surface for
each component, and recognizes a probe face by component features. The
segmentation is based on the landmarks located by a hierarchical algorithm that
combines the Faster R-CNN for face detection and the Reduced Tree Structured
Model for landmark localization. The core part of the CNN-based approach is a
revised VGG network. We study the performances with different settings on the
training set, including the synthesized data from 3D reconstruction, the
real-life data from an in-the-wild database, and both types of data combined.
We investigate the performances of the network when it is employed as a
classifier or designed as a feature extractor. The two recognition approaches
and the fast landmark localization are evaluated in extensive experiments, and
compared to stateof-the-art methods to demonstrate their efficacy.

74
Sparse-then-Dense Alignment based 3D Map Reconstruction Method for Endoscopic Capsule Robots
2017-08-29
Since the development of capsule endoscopcy technology, substantial progress
were made in converting passive capsule endoscopes to robotic active capsule
endoscopes which can be controlled by the doctor. However, robotic capsule
endoscopy still has some challenges. In particular, the use of such devices to
generate a precise and globally consistent three-dimensional (3D) map of the
entire inner organ remains an unsolved problem. Such global 3D maps of inner
organs would help doctors to detect the location and size of diseased areas
more accurately, precisely, and intuitively, thus permitting more accurate and
intuitive diagnoses. The proposed 3D reconstruction system is built in a
modular fashion including preprocessing, frame stitching, and shading-based 3D
reconstruction modules. We propose an efficient scheme to automatically select
the key frames out of the huge quantity of raw endoscopic images. Together with
a bundle fusion approach that aligns all the selected key frames jointly in a
globally consistent way, a significant improvement of the mosaic and 3D map
accuracy was reached. To the best of our knowledge, this framework is the first
complete pipeline for an endoscopic capsule robot based 3D map reconstruction
containing all of the necessary steps for a reliable and accurate endoscopic 3D
map. For the qualitative evaluations, a real pig stomach is employed. Moreover,
for the first time in literature, a detailed and comprehensive quantitative
analysis of each proposed pipeline modules is performed using a non-rigid
esophagus gastro duodenoscopy simulator, four different endoscopic cameras, a
magnetically activated soft capsule robot (MASCE), a sub-millimeter precise
optical motion tracker and a fine-scale 3D optical scanner.

75
Improved Descriptors for Patch Matching and Reconstruction
2017-01-24
We propose a convolutional neural network (ConvNet) based approach for
learning local image descriptors which can be used for significantly improved
patch matching and 3D reconstructions. A multi-resolution ConvNet is used for
learning keypoint descriptors. We also propose a new dataset consisting of an
order of magnitude more number of scenes, images, and positive and negative
correspondences compared to the currently available Multi-View Stereo (MVS)
[18] dataset. The new dataset also has better coverage of the overall
viewpoint, scale, and lighting changes in comparison to the MVS dataset. We
evaluate our approach on publicly available datasets, such as Oxford Affine
Covariant Regions Dataset (ACRD) [12], MVS [18], Synthetic [6] and Strecha [15]
datasets to quantify the image descriptor performance. Scenes from the Oxford
ACRD, MVS and Synthetic datasets are used for evaluating the patch matching
performance of the learnt descriptors while the Strecha dataset is used to
evaluate the 3D reconstruction task. Experiments show that the proposed
descriptor outperforms the current state-of-the-art descriptors in both the
evaluation tasks.

76
Distributed Bundle Adjustment
2017-08-26
Most methods for Bundle Adjustment (BA) in computer vision are either
centralized or operate incrementally. This leads to poor scaling and affects
the quality of solution as the number of images grows in large scale structure
from motion (SfM). Furthermore, they cannot be used in scenarios where image
acquisition and processing must be distributed. We address this problem with a
new distributed BA algorithm. Our distributed formulation uses alternating
direction method of multipliers (ADMM), and, since each processor sees only a
small portion of the data, we show that robust formulations improve
performance. We analyze convergence of the proposed algorithm, and illustrate
numerical performance, accuracy of the parameter estimates, and scalability of
the distributed implementation in the context of synthetic 3D datasets with
known camera position and orientation ground truth. The results are comparable
to an alternate state-of-the-art centralized bundle adjustment algorithm on
synthetic and real 3D reconstruction problems. The runtime of our
implementation scales linearly with the number of observed points.

77
Stereo DSO: Large-Scale Direct Sparse Visual Odometry with Stereo Cameras
2017-08-25
We propose Stereo Direct Sparse Odometry (Stereo DSO) as a novel method for
highly accurate real-time visual odometry estimation of large-scale
environments from stereo cameras. It jointly optimizes for all the model
parameters within the active window, including the intrinsic/extrinsic camera
parameters of all keyframes and the depth values of all selected pixels. In
particular, we propose a novel approach to integrate constraints from static
stereo into the bundle adjustment pipeline of temporal multi-view stereo.
Real-time optimization is realized by sampling pixels uniformly from image
regions with sufficient intensity gradient. Fixed-baseline stereo resolves
scale drift. It also reduces the sensitivities to large optical flow and to
rolling shutter effect which are known shortcomings of direct image alignment
methods. Quantitative evaluation demonstrates that the proposed Stereo DSO
outperforms existing state-of-the-art visual odometry methods both in terms of
tracking accuracy and robustness. Moreover, our method delivers a more precise
metric 3D reconstruction than previous dense/semi-dense direct approaches while
providing a higher reconstruction density than feature-based methods.

78
Multi-View Stereo with Single-View Semantic Mesh Refinement
2017-08-16
While 3D reconstruction is a well-established and widely explored research
topic, semantic 3D reconstruction has only recently witnessed an increasing
share of attention from the Computer Vision community. Semantic annotations
allow in fact to enforce strong class-dependent priors, as planarity for ground
and walls, which can be exploited to refine the reconstruction often resulting
in non-trivial performance improvements. State-of-the art methods propose
volumetric approaches to fuse RGB image data with semantic labels; even if
successful, they do not scale well and fail to output high resolution meshes.
In this paper we propose a novel method to refine both the geometry and the
semantic labeling of a given mesh. We refine the mesh geometry by applying a
variational method that optimizes a composite energy made of a state-of-the-art
pairwise photo-metric term and a single-view term that models the semantic
consistency between the labels of the 3D mesh and those of the segmented
images. We also update the semantic labeling through a novel Markov Random
Field (MRF) formulation that, together with the classical data and smoothness
terms, takes into account class-specific priors estimated directly from the
annotated mesh. This is in contrast to state-of-the-art methods that are
typically based on handcrafted or learned priors. We are the first, jointly
with the very recent and seminal work of [M. Blaha et al arXiv:1706.08336,
2017], to propose the use of semantics inside a mesh refinement framework.
Differently from [M. Blaha et al arXiv:1706.08336, 2017], which adopts a more
classical pairwise comparison to estimate the flow of the mesh, we apply a
single-view comparison between the semantically annotated image and the current
3D mesh labels; this improves the robustness in case of noisy segmentations.

79
Towards Large-Pose Face Frontalization in the Wild
2017-04-20
Despite recent advances in face recognition using deep learning, severe
accuracy drops are observed for large pose variations in unconstrained
environments. Learning pose-invariant features is one solution, but needs
expensively labeled large-scale data and carefully designed feature learning
algorithms. In this work, we focus on frontalizing faces in the wild under
various head poses, including extreme profile views. We propose a novel deep 3D
Morphable Model (3DMM) conditioned Face Frontalization Generative Adversarial
Network (GAN), termed as FF-GAN, to generate neutral head pose face images. Our
framework differs from both traditional GANs and 3DMM based modeling.
Incorporating 3DMM into the GAN structure provides shape and appearance priors
for fast convergence with less training data, while also supporting end-to-end
training. The 3DMM-conditioned GAN employs not only the discriminator and
generator loss but also a new masked symmetry loss to retain visual quality
under occlusions, besides an identity loss to recover high frequency
information. Experiments on face recognition, landmark localization and 3D
reconstruction consistently show the advantage of our frontalization method on
faces in the wild datasets.

80
Learning a Multi-View Stereo Machine
2017-08-17
We present a learnt system for multi-view stereopsis. In contrast to recent
learning based methods for 3D reconstruction, we leverage the underlying 3D
geometry of the problem through feature projection and unprojection along
viewing rays. By formulating these operations in a differentiable manner, we
are able to learn the system end-to-end for the task of metric 3D
reconstruction. End-to-end learning allows us to jointly reason about shape
priors while conforming geometric constraints, enabling reconstruction from
much fewer images (even a single image) than required by classical approaches
as well as completion of unseen surfaces. We thoroughly evaluate our approach
on the ShapeNet dataset and demonstrate the benefits over classical approaches
as well as recent learning based methods.

81
CAD Priors for Accurate and Flexible Instance Reconstruction
2017-05-08
We present an efficient and automatic approach for accurate reconstruction of
instances of big 3D objects from multiple, unorganized and unstructured point
clouds, in presence of dynamic clutter and occlusions. In contrast to
conventional scanning, where the background is assumed to be rather static, we
aim at handling dynamic clutter where background drastically changes during the
object scanning. Currently, it is tedious to solve this with available methods
unless the object of interest is first segmented out from the rest of the
scene. We address the problem by assuming the availability of a prior CAD
model, roughly resembling the object to be reconstructed. This assumption
almost always holds in applications such as industrial inspection or reverse
engineering. With aid of this prior acting as a proxy, we propose a fully
enhanced pipeline, capable of automatically detecting and segmenting the object
of interest from scenes and creating a pose graph, online, with linear
complexity. This allows initial scan alignment to the CAD model space, which is
then refined without the CAD constraint to fully recover a high fidelity 3D
reconstruction, accurate up to the sensor noise level. We also contribute a
novel object detection method, local implicit shape models (LISM) and give a
fast verification scheme. We evaluate our method on multiple datasets,
demonstrating the ability to accurately reconstruct objects from small sizes up
to $125m^3$.

82
DeformNet: Free-Form Deformation Network for 3D Shape Reconstruction from a Single Image
2017-08-11
3D reconstruction from a single image is a key problem in multiple
applications ranging from robotic manipulation to augmented reality. Prior
methods have tackled this problem through generative models which predict 3D
reconstructions as voxels or point clouds. However, these methods can be
computationally expensive and miss fine details. We introduce a new
differentiable layer for 3D data deformation and use it in DeformNet to learn a
model for 3D reconstruction-through-deformation. DeformNet takes an image
input, searches the nearest shape template from a database, and deforms the
template to match the query image. We evaluate our approach on the ShapeNet
dataset and show that - (a) the Free-Form Deformation layer is a powerful new
building block for Deep Learning models that manipulate 3D data (b) DeformNet
uses this FFD layer combined with shape retrieval for smooth and
detail-preserving 3D reconstruction of qualitatively plausible point clouds
with respect to a single query image (c) compared to other state-of-the-art 3D
reconstruction methods, DeformNet quantitatively matches or outperforms their
benchmarks by significant margins. For more information, visit:
https://deformnet-site.github.io/DeformNet-website/ .

83
Octree Generating Networks: Efficient Convolutional Architectures for High-resolution 3D Outputs
2017-03-28
We present a deep convolutional decoder architecture that can generate
volumetric 3D outputs in a compute- and memory-efficient manner by using an
octree representation. The network learns to predict both the structure of the
octree, and the occupancy values of individual cells. This makes it a
particularly valuable technique for generating 3D shapes. In contrast to
standard decoders acting on regular voxel grids, the architecture does not have
cubic complexity. This allows representing much higher resolution outputs with
a limited memory budget. We demonstrate this in several application domains,
including 3D convolutional autoencoders, generation of objects and whole scenes
from high-level representations, and shape from a single image.

84
A Solution for Crime Scene Reconstruction using Time-of-Flight Cameras
2017-08-07
In this work, we propose a method for three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction
of wide crime scene, based on a Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM)
approach. We used a Kinect V2 Time-of-Flight (TOF) RGB-D camera to provide
colored dense point clouds at a 30 Hz frequency. This device is moved freely (6
degrees of freedom) during the scene exploration. The implemented SLAM solution
aligns successive point clouds using an 3D keypoints description and matching
approach. This type of approach exploits both colorimetric and geometrical
information, and permits reconstruction under poor illumination conditions. Our
solution has been tested for indoor crime scene and outdoor archaeological site
reconstruction, returning a mean error around one centimeter. It is less
precise than environmental laser scanner solution, but more practical and
portable as well as less cumbersome. Also, the hardware is definitively
cheaper.

85
Intensity Video Guided 4D Fusion for Improved Highly Dynamic 3D Reconstruction
2017-08-06
The availability of high-speed 3D video sensors has greatly facilitated 3D
shape acquisition of dynamic and deformable objects, but high frame rate 3D
reconstruction is always degraded by spatial noise and temporal fluctuations.
This paper presents a simple yet powerful intensity video guided multi-frame 4D
fusion pipeline. Temporal tracking of intensity image points (of moving and
deforming objects) allows registration of the corresponding 3D data points,
whose 3D noise and fluctuations are then reduced by spatio-temporal multi-frame
4D fusion. We conducted simulated noise tests and real experiments on four 3D
objects using a 1000 fps 3D video sensor. The results demonstrate that the
proposed algorithm is effective at reducing 3D noise and is robust against
intensity noise. It outperforms existing algorithms with good scalability on
both stationary and dynamic objects.

86
Intrinsic3D: High-Quality 3D Reconstruction by Joint Appearance and Geometry Optimization with Spatially-Varying Lighting
2017-08-04
We introduce a novel method to obtain high-quality 3D reconstructions from
consumer RGB-D sensors. Our core idea is to simultaneously optimize for
geometry encoded in a signed distance field (SDF), textures from
automatically-selected keyframes, and their camera poses along with material
and scene lighting. To this end, we propose a joint surface reconstruction
approach that is based on Shape-from-Shading (SfS) techniques and utilizes the
estimation of spatially-varying spherical harmonics (SVSH) from subvolumes of
the reconstructed scene. Through extensive examples and evaluations, we
demonstrate that our method dramatically increases the level of detail in the
reconstructed scene geometry and contributes highly to consistent surface
texture recovery.

87
Better Together: Joint Reasoning for Non-rigid 3D Reconstruction with Specularities and Shading
2017-08-04
We demonstrate the use of shape-from-shading (SfS) to improve both the
quality and the robustness of 3D reconstruction of dynamic objects captured by
a single camera. Unlike previous approaches that made use of SfS as a
post-processing step, we offer a principled integrated approach that solves
dynamic object tracking and reconstruction and SfS as a single unified cost
function. Moving beyond Lambertian S f S , we propose a general approach that
models both specularities and shading while simultaneously tracking and
reconstructing general dynamic objects. Solving these problems jointly prevents
the kinds of tracking failures which can not be recovered from by pipeline
approaches. We show state-of-the-art results both qualitatively and
quantitatively.

88
InfiniTAM v3: A Framework for Large-Scale 3D Reconstruction with Loop Closure
2017-08-02
Volumetric models have become a popular representation for 3D scenes in
recent years. One breakthrough leading to their popularity was KinectFusion,
which focuses on 3D reconstruction using RGB-D sensors. However, monocular SLAM
has since also been tackled with very similar approaches. Representing the
reconstruction volumetrically as a TSDF leads to most of the simplicity and
efficiency that can be achieved with GPU implementations of these systems.
However, this representation is memory-intensive and limits applicability to
small-scale reconstructions. Several avenues have been explored to overcome
this. With the aim of summarizing them and providing for a fast, flexible 3D
reconstruction pipeline, we propose a new, unifying framework called InfiniTAM.
The idea is that steps like camera tracking, scene representation and
integration of new data can easily be replaced and adapted to the user's needs.
  This report describes the technical implementation details of InfiniTAM v3,
the third version of our InfiniTAM system. We have added various new features,
as well as making numerous enhancements to the low-level code that
significantly improve our camera tracking performance. The new features that we
expect to be of most interest are (i) a robust camera tracking module; (ii) an
implementation of Glocker et al.'s keyframe-based random ferns camera
relocaliser; (iii) a novel approach to globally-consistent TSDF-based
reconstruction, based on dividing the scene into rigid submaps and optimising
the relative poses between them; and (iv) an implementation of Keller et al.'s
surfel-based reconstruction approach.

89
Compact Model Representation for 3D Reconstruction
2017-07-23
3D reconstruction from 2D images is a central problem in computer vision.
Recent works have been focusing on reconstruction directly from a single image.
It is well known however that only one image cannot provide enough information
for such a reconstruction. A prior knowledge that has been entertained are 3D
CAD models due to its online ubiquity. A fundamental question is how to
compactly represent millions of CAD models while allowing generalization to new
unseen objects with fine-scaled geometry. We introduce an approach to compactly
represent a 3D mesh. Our method first selects a 3D model from a graph structure
by using a novel free-form deformation FFD 3D-2D registration, and then the
selected 3D model is refined to best fit the image silhouette. We perform a
comprehensive quantitative and qualitative analysis that demonstrates
impressive dense and realistic 3D reconstruction from single images.

90
"Maximizing rigidity" revisited: a convex programming approach for generic 3D shape reconstruction from multiple perspective views
2017-07-17
Rigid structure-from-motion (RSfM) and non-rigid structure-from-motion
(NRSfM) have long been treated in the literature as separate (different)
problems. Inspired by a previous work which solved directly for 3D scene
structure by factoring the relative camera poses out, we revisit the principle
of "maximizing rigidity" in structure-from-motion literature, and develop a
unified theory which is applicable to both rigid and non-rigid structure
reconstruction in a rigidity-agnostic way. We formulate these problems as a
convex semi-definite program, imposing constraints that seek to apply the
principle of minimizing non-rigidity. Our results demonstrate the efficacy of
the approach, with state-of-the-art accuracy on various 3D reconstruction
problems.

91
Pixel-variant Local Homography for Fisheye Stereo Rectification Minimizing Resampling Distortion
2017-07-12
Large field-of-view fisheye lens cameras have attracted more and more
researchers' attention in the field of robotics. However, there does not exist
a convenient off-the-shelf stereo rectification approach which can be applied
directly to fisheye stereo rig. One obvious drawback of existing methods is
that the resampling distortion (which is defined as the loss of pixels due to
under-sampling and the creation of new pixels due to over-sampling during
rectification process) is severe if we want to obtain a rectification with
epipolar line (not epipolar circle) constraint. To overcome this weakness, we
propose a novel pixel-wise local homography technique for stereo rectification.
First, we prove that there indeed exist enough degrees of freedom to apply
pixel-wise local homography for stereo rectification. Then we present a method
to exploit these freedoms and the solution via an optimization framework.
Finally, the robustness and effectiveness of the proposed method have been
verified on real fisheye lens images. The rectification results show that the
proposed approach can effectively reduce the resampling distortion in
comparison with existing methods while satisfying the epipolar line constraint.
By employing the proposed method, dense stereo matching and 3D reconstruction
for fisheye lens camera become as easy as perspective lens cameras.

92
Semantically Informed Multiview Surface Refinement
2017-06-26
We present a method to jointly refine the geometry and semantic segmentation
of 3D surface meshes. Our method alternates between updating the shape and the
semantic labels. In the geometry refinement step, the mesh is deformed with
variational energy minimization, such that it simultaneously maximizes
photo-consistency and the compatibility of the semantic segmentations across a
set of calibrated images. Label-specific shape priors account for interactions
between the geometry and the semantic labels in 3D. In the semantic
segmentation step, the labels on the mesh are updated with MRF inference, such
that they are compatible with the semantic segmentations in the input images.
Also, this step includes prior assumptions about the surface shape of different
semantic classes. The priors induce a tight coupling, where semantic
information influences the shape update and vice versa. Specifically, we
introduce priors that favor (i) adaptive smoothing, depending on the class
label; (ii) straightness of class boundaries; and (iii) semantic labels that
are consistent with the surface orientation. The novel mesh-based
reconstruction is evaluated in a series of experiments with real and synthetic
data. We compare both to state-of-the-art, voxel-based semantic 3D
reconstruction, and to purely geometric mesh refinement, and demonstrate that
the proposed scheme yields improved 3D geometry as well as an improved semantic
segmentation.

93
A comparative study of breast surface reconstruction for aesthetic outcome assessment
2017-06-20
Breast cancer is the most prevalent cancer type in women, and while its
survival rate is generally high the aesthetic outcome is an increasingly
important factor when evaluating different treatment alternatives. 3D scanning
and reconstruction techniques offer a flexible tool for building detailed and
accurate 3D breast models that can be used both pre-operatively for surgical
planning and post-operatively for aesthetic evaluation. This paper aims at
comparing the accuracy of low-cost 3D scanning technologies with the
significantly more expensive state-of-the-art 3D commercial scanners in the
context of breast 3D reconstruction. We present results from 28 synthetic and
clinical RGBD sequences, including 12 unique patients and an anthropomorphic
phantom demonstrating the applicability of low-cost RGBD sensors to real
clinical cases. Body deformation and homogeneous skin texture pose challenges
to the studied reconstruction systems. Although these should be addressed
appropriately if higher model quality is warranted, we observe that low-cost
sensors are able to obtain valuable reconstructions comparable to the
state-of-the-art within an error margin of 3 mm.

94
Superhuman Accuracy on the SNEMI3D Connectomics Challenge
2017-05-31
For the past decade, convolutional networks have been used for 3D
reconstruction of neurons from electron microscopic (EM) brain images. Recent
years have seen great improvements in accuracy, as evidenced by submissions to
the SNEMI3D benchmark challenge. Here we report the first submission to surpass
the estimate of human accuracy provided by the SNEMI3D leaderboard. A variant
of 3D U-Net is trained on a primary task of predicting affinities between
nearest neighbor voxels, and an auxiliary task of predicting long-range
affinities. The training data is augmented by simulated image defects. The
nearest neighbor affinities are used to create an oversegmentation, and then
supervoxels are greedily agglomerated based on mean affinity. The resulting
SNEMI3D score exceeds the estimate of human accuracy by a large margin. While
one should be cautious about extrapolating from the SNEMI3D benchmark to
real-world accuracy of large-scale neural circuit reconstruction, our result
inspires optimism that the goal of full automation may be realizable in the
future.

95
A fully dense and globally consistent 3D map reconstruction approach for GI tract to enhance therapeutic relevance of the endoscopic capsule robot
2017-05-18
In the gastrointestinal (GI) tract endoscopy field, ingestible wireless
capsule endoscopy is emerging as a novel, minimally invasive diagnostic
technology for inspection of the GI tract and diagnosis of a wide range of
diseases and pathologies. Since the development of this technology, medical
device companies and many research groups have made substantial progress in
converting passive capsule endoscopes to robotic active capsule endoscopes with
most of the functionality of current active flexible endoscopes. However,
robotic capsule endoscopy still has some challenges. In particular, the use of
such devices to generate a precise three-dimensional (3D) mapping of the entire
inner organ remains an unsolved problem. Such global 3D maps of inner organs
would help doctors to detect the location and size of diseased areas more
accurately and intuitively, thus permitting more reliable diagnoses. To our
knowledge, this paper presents the first complete pipeline for a complete 3D
visual map reconstruction of the stomach. The proposed pipeline is modular and
includes a preprocessing module, an image registration module, and a final
shape-from-shading-based 3D reconstruction module; the 3D map is primarily
generated by a combination of image stitching and shape-from-shading
techniques, and is updated in a frame-by-frame iterative fashion via capsule
motion inside the stomach. A comprehensive quantitative analysis of the
proposed 3D reconstruction method is performed using an esophagus gastro
duodenoscopy simulator, three different endoscopic cameras, and a 3D optical
scanner.

96
Back to RGB: 3D tracking of hands and hand-object interactions based on short-baseline stereo
2017-05-15
We present a novel solution to the problem of 3D tracking of the articulated
motion of human hand(s), possibly in interaction with other objects. The vast
majority of contemporary relevant work capitalizes on depth information
provided by RGBD cameras. In this work, we show that accurate and efficient 3D
hand tracking is possible, even for the case of RGB stereo. A straightforward
approach for solving the problem based on such input would be to first recover
depth and then apply a state of the art depth-based 3D hand tracking method.
Unfortunately, this does not work well in practice because the stereo-based,
dense 3D reconstruction of hands is far less accurate than the one obtained by
RGBD cameras. Our approach bypasses 3D reconstruction and follows a completely
different route: 3D hand tracking is formulated as an optimization problem
whose solution is the hand configuration that maximizes the color consistency
between the two views of the hand. We demonstrate the applicability of our
method for real time tracking of a single hand, of a hand manipulating an
object and of two interacting hands. The method has been evaluated
quantitatively on standard datasets and in comparison to relevant, state of the
art RGBD-based approaches. The obtained results demonstrate that the proposed
stereo-based method performs equally well to its RGBD-based competitors, and in
some cases, it even outperforms them.

97
A Correspondence Relaxation Approach for 3D Shape Reconstruction
2017-05-14
This paper presents a new method for 3D shape reconstruction based on two
existing methods. A 3D reconstruction from a single photograph is introduced by
both papers: the first one uses a photograph and a set of existing 3D model to
generate the 3D object in the photograph, while the second one uses a
photograph and a selected similar model to create the 3D object in the
photograph. According to their difference, we propose a relaxation based method
for more accurate correspondence establishment and shape recovery. The
experiment demonstrates promising results compared to the state-of-the-art work
on 3D shape estimation.

98
Spatial-Temporal Union of Subspaces for Multi-body Non-rigid Structure-from-Motion
2017-05-14
Non-rigid structure-from-motion (NRSfM) has so far been mostly studied for
recovering 3D structure of a single non-rigid/deforming object. To handle the
real world challenging multiple deforming objects scenarios, existing methods
either pre-segment different objects in the scene or treat multiple non-rigid
objects as a whole to obtain the 3D non-rigid reconstruction. However, these
methods fail to exploit the inherent structure in the problem as the solution
of segmentation and the solution of reconstruction could not benefit each
other. In this paper, we propose a unified framework to jointly segment and
reconstruct multiple non-rigid objects. To compactly represent complex
multi-body non-rigid scenes, we propose to exploit the structure of the scenes
along both temporal direction and spatial direction, thus achieving a
spatio-temporal representation. Specifically, we represent the 3D non-rigid
deformations as lying in a union of subspaces along the temporal direction and
represent the 3D trajectories as lying in the union of subspaces along the
spatial direction. This spatio-temporal representation not only provides
competitive 3D reconstruction but also outputs robust segmentation of multiple
non-rigid objects. The resultant optimization problem is solved efficiently
using the Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers (ADMM). Extensive
experimental results on both synthetic and real multi-body NRSfM datasets
demonstrate the superior performance of our proposed framework compared with
the state-of-the-art methods.

99
Machine Vision System for 3D Plant Phenotyping
2017-04-28
Machine vision for plant phenotyping is an emerging research area for
producing high throughput in agriculture and crop science applications. Since
2D based approaches have their inherent limitations, 3D plant analysis is
becoming state of the art for current phenotyping technologies. We present an
automated system for analyzing plant growth in indoor conditions. A gantry
robot system is used to perform scanning tasks in an automated manner
throughout the lifetime of the plant. A 3D laser scanner mounted as the robot's
payload captures the surface point cloud data of the plant from multiple views.
The plant is monitored from the vegetative to reproductive stages in light/dark
cycles inside a controllable growth chamber. An efficient 3D reconstruction
algorithm is used, by which multiple scans are aligned together to obtain a 3D
mesh of the plant, followed by surface area and volume computations. The whole
system, including the programmable growth chamber, robot, scanner, data
transfer and analysis is fully automated in such a way that a naive user can,
in theory, start the system with a mouse click and get back the growth analysis
results at the end of the lifetime of the plant with no intermediate
intervention. As evidence of its functionality, we show and analyze
quantitative results of the rhythmic growth patterns of the dicot Arabidopsis
thaliana(L.), and the monocot barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) plants under their
diurnal light/dark cycles.

100
SMASH: Physics-guided Reconstruction of Collisions from Videos
2016-03-29
Collision sequences are commonly used in games and entertainment to add drama
and excitement. Authoring even two body collisions in the real world can be
difficult, as one has to get timing and the object trajectories to be correctly
synchronized. After tedious trial-and-error iterations, when objects can
actually be made to collide, then they are difficult to capture in 3D. In
contrast, synthetically generating plausible collisions is difficult as it
requires adjusting different collision parameters (e.g., object mass ratio,
coefficient of restitution, etc.) and appropriate initial parameters. We
present SMASH to directly read off appropriate collision parameters directly
from raw input video recordings. Technically we enable this by utilizing laws
of rigid body collision to regularize the problem of lifting 2D trajectories to
a physically valid 3D reconstruction of the collision. The reconstructed
sequences can then be modified and combined to easily author novel and
plausible collisions. We evaluate our system on a range of synthetic scenes and
demonstrate the effectiveness of our method by accurately reconstructing
several complex real world collision events.

101
3DMatch: Learning Local Geometric Descriptors from RGB-D Reconstructions
2016-03-27
Matching local geometric features on real-world depth images is a challenging
task due to the noisy, low-resolution, and incomplete nature of 3D scan data.
These difficulties limit the performance of current state-of-art methods, which
are typically based on histograms over geometric properties. In this paper, we
present 3DMatch, a data-driven model that learns a local volumetric patch
descriptor for establishing correspondences between partial 3D data. To amass
training data for our model, we propose a self-supervised feature learning
method that leverages the millions of correspondence labels found in existing
RGB-D reconstructions. Experiments show that our descriptor is not only able to
match local geometry in new scenes for reconstruction, but also generalize to
different tasks and spatial scales (e.g. instance-level object model alignment
for the Amazon Picking Challenge, and mesh surface correspondence). Results
show that 3DMatch consistently outperforms other state-of-the-art approaches by
a significant margin. Code, data, benchmarks, and pre-trained models are
available online at http://3dmatch.cs.princeton.edu

102
Weighted Motion Averaging for the Registration of Multi-View Range Scans
2017-02-21
Multi-view registration is a fundamental but challenging problem in 3D
reconstruction and robot vision. Although the original motion averaging
algorithm has been introduced as an effective means to solve the multi-view
registration problem, it does not consider the reliability and accuracy of each
relative motion. Accordingly, this paper proposes a novel motion averaging
algorithm for multi-view registration. Firstly, it utilizes the pair-wise
registration algorithm to estimate the relative motion and overlapping
percentage of each scan pair with a certain degree of overlap. With the
overlapping percentage available, it views the overlapping percentage as the
corresponding weight of each scan pair and proposes the weight motion averaging
algorithm, which can pay more attention to reliable and accurate relative
motions. By treating each relative motion distinctively, more accurate
registration can be achieved by applying the weighted motion averaging to
multi-view range scans. Experimental results demonstrate the superiority of our
proposed approach compared with the state-of-the-art methods in terms of
accuracy, robustness and efficiency.

103
3D Object Reconstruction from Hand-Object Interactions
2017-04-03
Recent advances have enabled 3d object reconstruction approaches using a
single off-the-shelf RGB-D camera. Although these approaches are successful for
a wide range of object classes, they rely on stable and distinctive geometric
or texture features. Many objects like mechanical parts, toys, household or
decorative articles, however, are textureless and characterized by minimalistic
shapes that are simple and symmetric. Existing in-hand scanning systems and 3d
reconstruction techniques fail for such symmetric objects in the absence of
highly distinctive features. In this work, we show that extracting 3d hand
motion for in-hand scanning effectively facilitates the reconstruction of even
featureless and highly symmetric objects and we present an approach that fuses
the rich additional information of hands into a 3d reconstruction pipeline,
significantly contributing to the state-of-the-art of in-hand scanning.

104
Dense Multi-view 3D-reconstruction Without Dense Correspondences
2017-04-02
We introduce a variational method for multi-view shape-from-shading under
natural illumination. The key idea is to couple PDE-based solutions for
single-image based shape-from-shading problems across multiple images and
multiple color channels by means of a variational formulation. Rather than
alternatingly solving the individual SFS problems and optimizing the
consistency across images and channels which is known to lead to suboptimal
results, we propose an efficient solution of the coupled problem by means of an
ADMM algorithm. In numerous experiments on both simulated and real imagery, we
demonstrate that the proposed fusion of multiple-view reconstruction and
shape-from-shading provides highly accurate dense reconstructions without the
need to compute dense correspondences. With the proposed variational
integration across multiple views shape-from-shading techniques become
applicable to challenging real-world reconstruction problems, giving rise to
highly detailed geometry even in areas of smooth brightness variation and
lacking texture.

105
De-noising, Stabilizing and Completing 3D Reconstructions On-the-go using Plane Priors
2016-09-27
Creating 3D maps on robots and other mobile devices has become a reality in
recent years. Online 3D reconstruction enables many exciting applications in
robotics and AR/VR gaming. However, the reconstructions are noisy and generally
incomplete. Moreover, during onine reconstruction, the surface changes with
every newly integrated depth image which poses a significant challenge for
physics engines and path planning algorithms. This paper presents a novel, fast
and robust method for obtaining and using information about planar surfaces,
such as walls, floors, and ceilings as a stage in 3D reconstruction based on
Signed Distance Fields. Our algorithm recovers clean and accurate surfaces,
reduces the movement of individual mesh vertices caused by noise during online
reconstruction and fills in the occluded and unobserved regions. We implemented
and evaluated two different strategies to generate plane candidates and two
strategies for merging them. Our implementation is optimized to run in
real-time on mobile devices such as the Tango tablet. In an extensive set of
experiments, we validated that our approach works well in a large number of
natural environments despite the presence of significant amount of occlusion,
clutter and noise, which occur frequently. We further show that plane fitting
enables in many cases a meaningful semantic segmentation of real-world scenes.

106
A fully end-to-end deep learning approach for real-time simultaneous 3D reconstruction and material recognition
2017-03-14
This paper addresses the problem of simultaneous 3D reconstruction and
material recognition and segmentation. Enabling robots to recognise different
materials (concrete, metal etc.) in a scene is important for many tasks, e.g.
robotic interventions in nuclear decommissioning. Previous work on 3D semantic
reconstruction has predominantly focused on recognition of everyday domestic
objects (tables, chairs etc.), whereas previous work on material recognition
has largely been confined to single 2D images without any 3D reconstruction.
Meanwhile, most 3D semantic reconstruction methods rely on computationally
expensive post-processing, using Fully-Connected Conditional Random Fields
(CRFs), to achieve consistent segmentations. In contrast, we propose a deep
learning method which performs 3D reconstruction while simultaneously
recognising different types of materials and labelling them at the pixel level.
Unlike previous methods, we propose a fully end-to-end approach, which does not
require hand-crafted features or CRF post-processing. Instead, we use only
learned features, and the CRF segmentation constraints are incorporated inside
the fully end-to-end learned system. We present the results of experiments, in
which we trained our system to perform real-time 3D semantic reconstruction for
23 different materials in a real-world application. The run-time performance of
the system can be boosted to around 10Hz, using a conventional GPU, which is
enough to achieve real-time semantic reconstruction using a 30fps RGB-D camera.
To the best of our knowledge, this work is the first real-time end-to-end
system for simultaneous 3D reconstruction and material recognition.

107
3D Scanning System for Automatic High-Resolution Plant Phenotyping
2017-02-26
Thin leaves, fine stems, self-occlusion, non-rigid and slowly changing
structures make plants difficult for three-dimensional (3D) scanning and
reconstruction -- two critical steps in automated visual phenotyping. Many
current solutions such as laser scanning, structured light, and multiview
stereo can struggle to acquire usable 3D models because of limitations in
scanning resolution and calibration accuracy. In response, we have developed a
fast, low-cost, 3D scanning platform to image plants on a rotating stage with
two tilting DSLR cameras centred on the plant. This uses new methods of camera
calibration and background removal to achieve high-accuracy 3D reconstruction.
We assessed the system's accuracy using a 3D visual hull reconstruction
algorithm applied on 2 plastic models of dicotyledonous plants, 2 sorghum
plants and 2 wheat plants across different sets of tilt angles. Scan times
ranged from 3 minutes (to capture 72 images using 2 tilt angles), to 30 minutes
(to capture 360 images using 10 tilt angles). The leaf lengths, widths, areas
and perimeters of the plastic models were measured manually and compared to
measurements from the scanning system: results were within 3-4% of each other.
The 3D reconstructions obtained with the scanning system show excellent
geometric agreement with all six plant specimens, even plants with thin leaves
and fine stems.

108
3D Reconstruction of Temples in the Special Region of Yogyakarta By Using Close-Range Photogrammetry
2017-02-22
Object reconstruction is one of the main problems in cultural heritage
preservation. This problem is due to lack of data in documentation. Thus in
this research we presented a method of 3D reconstruction using close-range
photogrammetry. We collected 1319 photos from five temples in Yogyakarta. Using
A-KAZE algorithm, keypoints of each image were obtained. Then we employed LIOP
to create feature descriptor from it. After performing feature matching, L1RA
was utilized to create sparse point clouds. In order to generate the geometry
shape, MVS was used. Finally, FSSR and Large Scale Texturing were employed to
deal with the surface and texture of the object. The quality of the
reconstructed 3D model was measured by comparing the 3D images of the model
with the original photos utilizing SSIM. The results showed that in terms of
quality, our method was on par with other commercial method such as
PhotoModeler and PhotoScan.

109
BundleFusion: Real-time Globally Consistent 3D Reconstruction using On-the-fly Surface Re-integration
2016-04-05
Real-time, high-quality, 3D scanning of large-scale scenes is key to mixed
reality and robotic applications. However, scalability brings challenges of
drift in pose estimation, introducing significant errors in the accumulated
model. Approaches often require hours of offline processing to globally correct
model errors. Recent online methods demonstrate compelling results, but suffer
from: (1) needing minutes to perform online correction preventing true
real-time use; (2) brittle frame-to-frame (or frame-to-model) pose estimation
resulting in many tracking failures; or (3) supporting only unstructured
point-based representations, which limit scan quality and applicability. We
systematically address these issues with a novel, real-time, end-to-end
reconstruction framework. At its core is a robust pose estimation strategy,
optimizing per frame for a global set of camera poses by considering the
complete history of RGB-D input with an efficient hierarchical approach. We
remove the heavy reliance on temporal tracking, and continually localize to the
globally optimized frames instead. We contribute a parallelizable optimization
framework, which employs correspondences based on sparse features and dense
geometric and photometric matching. Our approach estimates globally optimized
(i.e., bundle adjusted) poses in real-time, supports robust tracking with
recovery from gross tracking failures (i.e., relocalization), and re-estimates
the 3D model in real-time to ensure global consistency; all within a single
framework. Our approach outperforms state-of-the-art online systems with
quality on par to offline methods, but with unprecedented speed and scan
completeness. Our framework leads to a comprehensive online scanning solution
for large indoor environments, enabling ease of use and high-quality results.

110
Solving Uncalibrated Photometric Stereo Using Fewer Images by Jointly Optimizing Low-rank Matrix Completion and Integrability
2017-02-02
We introduce a new, integrated approach to uncalibrated photometric stereo.
We perform 3D reconstruction of Lambertian objects using multiple images
produced by unknown, directional light sources. We show how to formulate a
single optimization that includes rank and integrability constraints, allowing
also for missing data. We then solve this optimization using the Alternate
Direction Method of Multipliers (ADMM). We conduct extensive experimental
evaluation on real and synthetic data sets. Our integrated approach is
particularly valuable when performing photometric stereo using as few as 4-6
images, since the integrability constraint is capable of improving estimation
of the linear subspace of possible solutions. We show good improvements over
prior work in these cases.

111
SceneNet RGB-D: 5M Photorealistic Images of Synthetic Indoor Trajectories with Ground Truth
2016-12-15
We introduce SceneNet RGB-D, expanding the previous work of SceneNet to
enable large scale photorealistic rendering of indoor scene trajectories. It
provides pixel-perfect ground truth for scene understanding problems such as
semantic segmentation, instance segmentation, and object detection, and also
for geometric computer vision problems such as optical flow, depth estimation,
camera pose estimation, and 3D reconstruction. Random sampling permits
virtually unlimited scene configurations, and here we provide a set of 5M
rendered RGB-D images from over 15K trajectories in synthetic layouts with
random but physically simulated object poses. Each layout also has random
lighting, camera trajectories, and textures. The scale of this dataset is well
suited for pre-training data-driven computer vision techniques from scratch
with RGB-D inputs, which previously has been limited by relatively small
labelled datasets in NYUv2 and SUN RGB-D. It also provides a basis for
investigating 3D scene labelling tasks by providing perfect camera poses and
depth data as proxy for a SLAM system. We host the dataset at
http://robotvault.bitbucket.io/scenenet-rgbd.html

112
Recovering 3D Planar Arrangements from Videos
2017-01-25
Acquiring 3D geometry of real world objects has various applications in 3D
digitization, such as navigation and content generation in virtual
environments. Image remains one of the most popular media for such visual tasks
due to its simplicity of acquisition. Traditional image-based 3D reconstruction
approaches heavily exploit point-to-point correspondence among multiple images
to estimate camera motion and 3D geometry. Establishing point-to-point
correspondence lies at the center of the 3D reconstruction pipeline, which
however is easily prone to errors. In this paper, we propose an optimization
framework which traces image points using a novel structure-guided dynamic
tracking algorithm and estimates both the camera motion and a 3D structure
model by enforcing a set of planar constraints. The key to our method is a
structure model represented as a set of planes and their arrangements.
Constraints derived from the structure model is used both in the correspondence
establishment stage and the bundle adjustment stage in our reconstruction
pipeline. Experiments show that our algorithm can effectively localize
structure correspondence across dense image frames while faithfully
reconstructing the camera motion and the underlying structured 3D model.

113
3D Reconstruction of Simple Objects from A Single View Silhouette Image
2017-01-17
While recent deep neural networks have achieved promising results for 3D
reconstruction from a single-view image, these rely on the availability of RGB
textures in images and extra information as supervision. In this work, we
propose novel stacked hierarchical networks and an end to end training strategy
to tackle a more challenging task for the first time, 3D reconstruction from a
single-view 2D silhouette image. We demonstrate that our model is able to
conduct 3D reconstruction from a single-view silhouette image both
qualitatively and quantitatively. Evaluation is performed using Shapenet for
the single-view reconstruction and results are presented in comparison with a
single network, to highlight the improvements obtained with the proposed
stacked networks and the end to end training strategy. Furthermore, 3D re-
construction in forms of IoU is compared with the state of art 3D
reconstruction from a single-view RGB image, and the proposed model achieves
higher IoU than the state of art of reconstruction from a single view RGB
image.

114
Two-view 3D Reconstruction for Food Volume Estimation
2017-01-12
The increasing prevalence of diet-related chronic diseases coupled with the
ineffectiveness of traditional diet management methods have resulted in a need
for novel tools to accurately and automatically assess meals. Recently,
computer vision based systems that use meal images to assess their content have
been proposed. Food portion estimation is the most difficult task for
individuals assessing their meals and it is also the least studied area. The
present paper proposes a three-stage system to calculate portion sizes using
two images of a dish acquired by mobile devices. The first stage consists in
understanding the configuration of the different views, after which a dense 3D
model is built from the two images; finally, this 3D model serves to extract
the volume of the different items. The system was extensively tested on 77 real
dishes of known volume, and achieved an average error of less than 10% in 5.5
seconds per dish. The proposed pipeline is computationally tractable and
requires no user input, making it a viable option for fully automated dietary
assessment.

115
Unsupervised single-particle deep clustering via statistical manifold learning
2016-04-15
Motivation: Structural heterogeneity in single-particle cryo-electron
microscopy (cryo-EM) data represents a major challenge for high-resolution
structure determination. Unsupervised classification may serve as the first
step in the assessment of structural heterogeneity. Traditional algorithms for
unsupervised classification, such as K-means clustering and maximum likelihood
optimization, may classify images into wrong classes with decreasing
signal-to-noise-ratio (SNR) in the image data, yet demand increased cost in
computation. Overcoming these limitations requires further development on
clustering algorithms for high-performance cryo-EM data analysis. Results: Here
we introduce a statistical manifold learning algorithm for unsupervised
single-particle deep clustering. We show that statistical manifold learning
improves classification accuracy by about 40% in the absence of input
references for lower SNR data. Applications to several experimental datasets
suggest that our deep clustering approach can detect subtle structural
difference among classes. Through code optimization over the Intel
high-performance computing (HPC) processors, our software implementation can
generate thousands of reference-free class averages within several hours from
hundreds of thousands of single-particle cryo-EM images, which allows
significant improvement in ab initio 3D reconstruction resolution and quality.
Our approach has been successfully applied in several structural determination
projects. We expect that it provides a powerful computational tool in analyzing
highly heterogeneous structural data and assisting in computational
purification of single-particle datasets for high-resolution reconstruction.

116
A Point Set Generation Network for 3D Object Reconstruction from a Single Image
2016-12-02
Generation of 3D data by deep neural network has been attracting increasing
attention in the research community. The majority of extant works resort to
regular representations such as volumetric grids or collection of images;
however, these representations obscure the natural invariance of 3D shapes
under geometric transformations and also suffer from a number of other issues.
In this paper we address the problem of 3D reconstruction from a single image,
generating a straight-forward form of output -- point cloud coordinates. Along
with this problem arises a unique and interesting issue, that the groundtruth
shape for an input image may be ambiguous. Driven by this unorthodox output
form and the inherent ambiguity in groundtruth, we design architecture, loss
function and learning paradigm that are novel and effective. Our final solution
is a conditional shape sampler, capable of predicting multiple plausible 3D
point clouds from an input image. In experiments not only can our system
outperform state-of-the-art methods on single image based 3d reconstruction
benchmarks; but it also shows a strong performance for 3d shape completion and
promising ability in making multiple plausible predictions.

117
Social Behavior Prediction from First Person Videos
2016-11-29
This paper presents a method to predict the future movements (location and
gaze direction) of basketball players as a whole from their first person
videos. The predicted behaviors reflect an individual physical space that
affords to take the next actions while conforming to social behaviors by
engaging to joint attention. Our key innovation is to use the 3D reconstruction
of multiple first person cameras to automatically annotate each other's the
visual semantics of social configurations.
  We leverage two learning signals uniquely embedded in first person videos.
Individually, a first person video records the visual semantics of a spatial
and social layout around a person that allows associating with past similar
situations. Collectively, first person videos follow joint attention that can
link the individuals to a group. We learn the egocentric visual semantics of
group movements using a Siamese neural network to retrieve future trajectories.
We consolidate the retrieved trajectories from all players by maximizing a
measure of social compatibility---the gaze alignment towards joint attention
predicted by their social formation, where the dynamics of joint attention is
learned by a long-term recurrent convolutional network. This allows us to
characterize which social configuration is more plausible and predict future
group trajectories.

118
Semi-Dense 3D Semantic Mapping from Monocular SLAM
2016-11-13
The bundle of geometry and appearance in computer vision has proven to be a
promising solution for robots across a wide variety of applications. Stereo
cameras and RGB-D sensors are widely used to realise fast 3D reconstruction and
trajectory tracking in a dense way. However, they lack flexibility of seamless
switch between different scaled environments, i.e., indoor and outdoor scenes.
In addition, semantic information are still hard to acquire in a 3D mapping. We
address this challenge by combining the state-of-art deep learning method and
semi-dense Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping (SLAM) based on video stream
from a monocular camera. In our approach, 2D semantic information are
transferred to 3D mapping via correspondence between connective Keyframes with
spatial consistency. There is no need to obtain a semantic segmentation for
each frame in a sequence, so that it could achieve a reasonable computation
time. We evaluate our method on indoor/outdoor datasets and lead to an
improvement in the 2D semantic labelling over baseline single frame
predictions.

119
Multistage SFM: A Coarse-to-Fine Approach for 3D Reconstruction
2015-12-19
Several methods have been proposed for large-scale 3D reconstruction from
large, unorganized image collections. A large reconstruction problem is
typically divided into multiple components which are reconstructed
independently using structure from motion (SFM) and later merged together.
Incremental SFM methods are most popular for the basic structure recovery of a
single component. They are robust and effective but are strictly sequential in
nature. We present a multistage approach for SFM reconstruction of a single
component that breaks the sequential nature of the incremental SFM methods. Our
approach begins with quickly building a coarse 3D model using only a fraction
of features from given images. The coarse model is then enriched by localizing
remaining images and matching and triangulating remaining features in
subsequent stages. These stages are made efficient and highly parallel by
leveraging the geometry of the coarse model. Our method produces similar
quality models as compared to incremental SFM methods while being notably fast
and parallel.

120
Target-driven Visual Navigation in Indoor Scenes using Deep Reinforcement Learning
2016-09-16
Two less addressed issues of deep reinforcement learning are (1) lack of
generalization capability to new target goals, and (2) data inefficiency i.e.,
the model requires several (and often costly) episodes of trial and error to
converge, which makes it impractical to be applied to real-world scenarios. In
this paper, we address these two issues and apply our model to the task of
target-driven visual navigation. To address the first issue, we propose an
actor-critic model whose policy is a function of the goal as well as the
current state, which allows to better generalize. To address the second issue,
we propose AI2-THOR framework, which provides an environment with high-quality
3D scenes and physics engine. Our framework enables agents to take actions and
interact with objects. Hence, we can collect a huge number of training samples
efficiently.
  We show that our proposed method (1) converges faster than the
state-of-the-art deep reinforcement learning methods, (2) generalizes across
targets and across scenes, (3) generalizes to a real robot scenario with a
small amount of fine-tuning (although the model is trained in simulation), (4)
is end-to-end trainable and does not need feature engineering, feature matching
between frames or 3D reconstruction of the environment.
  The supplementary video can be accessed at the following link:
https://youtu.be/SmBxMDiOrvs.

121
ORBSLAM-based Endoscope Tracking and 3D Reconstruction
2016-08-29
We aim to track the endoscope location inside the surgical scene and provide
3D reconstruction, in real-time, from the sole input of the image sequence
captured by the monocular endoscope. This information offers new possibilities
for developing surgical navigation and augmented reality applications. The main
benefit of this approach is the lack of extra tracking elements which can
disturb the surgeon performance in the clinical routine. It is our first
contribution to exploit ORBSLAM, one of the best performing monocular SLAM
algorithms, to estimate both of the endoscope location, and 3D structure of the
surgical scene. However, the reconstructed 3D map poorly describe textureless
soft organ surfaces such as liver. It is our second contribution to extend
ORBSLAM to be able to reconstruct a semi-dense map of soft organs. Experimental
results on in-vivo pigs, shows a robust endoscope tracking even with organs
deformations and partial instrument occlusions. It also shows the
reconstruction density, and accuracy against ground truth surface obtained from
CT.

122
Unconstrained Two-parallel-plane Model for Focused Plenoptic Cameras Calibration
2016-08-16
The plenoptic camera can capture both angular and spatial information of the
rays, enabling 3D reconstruction by single exposure. The geometry of the
recovered scene structure is affected by the calibration of the plenoptic
camera significantly. In this paper, we propose a novel unconstrained
two-parallel-plane (TPP) model with 7 parameters to describe a 4D light field.
By reconstructing scene points from ray-ray association, a 3D projective
transformation is deduced to establish the relationship between the scene
structure and the TPP parameters. Based on the transformation, we simplify the
focused plenoptic camera as a TPP model and calibrate its intrinsic parameters.
Our calibration method includes a close-form solution and a nonlinear
optimization by minimizing re-projection error. Experiments on both simulated
data and real scene data verify the performance of the calibration on the
focused plenoptic camera.

123
Branching Gaussian Processes with Applications to Spatiotemporal Reconstruction of 3D Trees
2016-08-14
We propose a robust method for estimating dynamic 3D curvilinear branching
structure from monocular images. While 3D reconstruction from images has been
widely studied, estimating thin structure has received less attention. This
problem becomes more challenging in the presence of camera error, scene motion,
and a constraint that curves are attached in a branching structure. We propose
a new general-purpose prior, a branching Gaussian processes (BGP), that models
spatial smoothness and temporal dynamics of curves while enforcing attachment
between them. We apply this prior to fit 3D trees directly to image data, using
an efficient scheme for approximate inference based on expectation propagation.
The BGP prior's Gaussian form allows us to approximately marginalize over 3D
trees with a given model structure, enabling principled comparison between tree
models with varying complexity. We test our approach on a novel multi-view
dataset depicting plants with known 3D structures and topologies undergoing
small nonrigid motion. Our method outperforms a state-of-the-art 3D
reconstruction method designed for non-moving thin structure. We evaluate under
several common measures, and we propose a new measure for reconstructions of
branching multi-part 3D scenes under motion.

124
Lifting Object Detection Datasets into 3D
2015-03-22
While data has certainly taken the center stage in computer vision in recent
years, it can still be difficult to obtain in certain scenarios. In particular,
acquiring ground truth 3D shapes of objects pictured in 2D images remains a
challenging feat and this has hampered progress in recognition-based object
reconstruction from a single image. Here we propose to bypass previous
solutions such as 3D scanning or manual design, that scale poorly, and instead
populate object category detection datasets semi-automatically with dense,
per-object 3D reconstructions, bootstrapped from:(i) class labels, (ii) ground
truth figure-ground segmentations and (iii) a small set of keypoint
annotations. Our proposed algorithm first estimates camera viewpoint using
rigid structure-from-motion and then reconstructs object shapes by optimizing
over visual hull proposals guided by loose within-class shape similarity
assumptions. The visual hull sampling process attempts to intersect an object's
projection cone with the cones of minimal subsets of other similar objects
among those pictured from certain vantage points. We show that our method is
able to produce convincing per-object 3D reconstructions and to accurately
estimate cameras viewpoints on one of the most challenging existing
object-category detection datasets, PASCAL VOC. We hope that our results will
re-stimulate interest on joint object recognition and 3D reconstruction from a
single image.

125
3DFS: Deformable Dense Depth Fusion and Segmentation for Object Reconstruction from a Handheld Camera
2016-06-15
We propose an approach for 3D reconstruction and segmentation of a single
object placed on a flat surface from an input video. Our approach is to perform
dense depth map estimation for multiple views using a proposed objective
function that preserves detail. The resulting depth maps are then fused using a
proposed implicit surface function that is robust to estimation error,
producing a smooth surface reconstruction of the entire scene. Finally, the
object is segmented from the remaining scene using a proposed 2D-3D
segmentation that incorporates image and depth cues with priors and
regularization over the 3D volume and 2D segmentations. We evaluate 3D
reconstructions qualitatively on our Object-Videos dataset, comparing to
fusion, multiview stereo, and segmentation baselines. We also quantitatively
evaluate the dense depth estimation using the RGBD Scenes V2 dataset [Henry et
al. 2013] and the segmentation using keyframe annotations of the Object-Videos
dataset.

126
Feature Descriptors for Tracking by Detection: a Benchmark
2016-07-21
In this paper, we provide an extensive evaluation of the performance of local
descriptors for tracking applications. Many different descriptors have been
proposed in the literature for a wide range of application in computer vision
such as object recognition and 3D reconstruction. More recently, due to fast
key-point detectors, local image features can be used in online tracking
frameworks. However, while much effort has been spent on evaluating their
performance in terms of distinctiveness and robustness to image
transformations, very little has been done in the contest of tracking. Our
evaluation is performed in terms of distinctiveness, tracking precision and
tracking speed. Our results show that binary descriptors like ORB or BRISK have
comparable results to SIFT or AKAZE due to a higher number of key-points.

127
Multi-body Non-rigid Structure-from-Motion
2016-07-15
Conventional structure-from-motion (SFM) research is primarily concerned with
the 3D reconstruction of a single, rigidly moving object seen by a static
camera, or a static and rigid scene observed by a moving camera --in both cases
there are only one relative rigid motion involved. Recent progress have
extended SFM to the areas of {multi-body SFM} (where there are {multiple rigid}
relative motions in the scene), as well as {non-rigid SFM} (where there is a
single non-rigid, deformable object or scene). Along this line of thinking,
there is apparently a missing gap of "multi-body non-rigid SFM", in which the
task would be to jointly reconstruct and segment multiple 3D structures of the
multiple, non-rigid objects or deformable scenes from images. Such a multi-body
non-rigid scenario is common in reality (e.g. two persons shaking hands,
multi-person social event), and how to solve it represents a natural
{next-step} in SFM research. By leveraging recent results of subspace
clustering, this paper proposes, for the first time, an effective framework for
multi-body NRSFM, which simultaneously reconstructs and segments each 3D
trajectory into their respective low-dimensional subspace. Under our
formulation, 3D trajectories for each non-rigid structure can be well
approximated with a sparse affine combination of other 3D trajectories from the
same structure (self-expressiveness). We solve the resultant optimization with
the alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM). We demonstrate the
efficacy of the proposed framework through extensive experiments on both
synthetic and real data sequences. Our method clearly outperforms other
alternative methods, such as first clustering the 2D feature tracks to groups
and then doing non-rigid reconstruction in each group or first conducting 3D
reconstruction by using single subspace assumption and then clustering the 3D
trajectories into groups.

128
A Representation Theory Perspective on Simultaneous Alignment and Classification
2016-07-12
One of the difficulties in 3D reconstruction of molecules from images in
single particle Cryo-Electron Microscopy (Cryo-EM), in addition to high levels
of noise and unknown image orientations, is heterogeneity in samples: in many
cases, the samples contain a mixture of molecules, or multiple conformations of
one molecule. Many algorithms for the reconstruction of molecules from images
in heterogeneous Cryo-EM experiments are based on iterative approximations of
the molecules in a non-convex optimization that is prone to reaching suboptimal
local minima. Other algorithms require an alignment in order to perform
classification, or vice versa. The recently introduced Non-Unique Games
framework provides a representation theoretic approach to studying problems of
alignment over compact groups, and offers convex relaxations for alignment
problems which are formulated as semidefinite programs (SDPs) with certificates
of global optimality under certain circumstances. In this manuscript, we
propose to extend Non-Unique Games to the problem of simultaneous alignment and
classification with the goal of simultaneously classifying Cryo-EM images and
aligning them within their respective classes. Our proposed approach can also
be extended to the case of continuous heterogeneity.

129
Boundary conditions for Shape from Shading
2016-07-12
The Shape From Shading is one of a computer vision field. It studies the 3D
reconstruction of an object from a single grayscale image. The difficulty of
this field can be expressed in the local ambiguity (convex / concave). J.Shi
and Q.Zhu have proposed a method (Global View) to solve the local ambiguity.
This method based on the graph theory and the relationship between the singular
points. In this work we will show that the use of singular points is not
sufficient and requires further information on the object to resolve this
ambiguity.

130
Automatic 3D Reconstruction for Symmetric Shapes
2016-06-18
Generic 3D reconstruction from a single image is a difficult problem. A lot
of data loss occurs in the projection. A domain based approach to
reconstruction where we solve a smaller set of problems for a particular use
case lead to greater returns. The project provides a way to automatically
generate full 3-D renditions of actual symmetric images that have some prior
information provided in the pipeline by a recognition algorithm. We provide a
critical analysis on how this can be enhanced and improved to provide a general
reconstruction framework for automatic reconstruction for any symmetric shape.

131
Multiview Rectification of Folded Documents
2016-06-01
Digitally unwrapping images of paper sheets is crucial for accurate document
scanning and text recognition. This paper presents a method for automatically
rectifying curved or folded paper sheets from a few images captured from
multiple viewpoints. Prior methods either need expensive 3D scanners or model
deformable surfaces using over-simplified parametric representations. In
contrast, our method uses regular images and is based on general developable
surface models that can represent a wide variety of paper deformations. Our
main contribution is a new robust rectification method based on ridge-aware 3D
reconstruction of a paper sheet and unwrapping the reconstructed surface using
properties of developable surfaces via $\ell_1$ conformal mapping. We present
results on several examples including book pages, folded letters and shopping
receipts.

132
Self-expressive Dictionary Learning for Dynamic 3D Reconstruction
2016-05-22
We target the problem of sparse 3D reconstruction of dynamic objects observed
by multiple unsynchronized video cameras with unknown temporal overlap. To this
end, we develop a framework to recover the unknown structure without sequencing
information across video sequences. Our proposed compressed sensing framework
poses the estimation of 3D structure as the problem of dictionary learning,
where the dictionary is defined as an aggregation of the temporally varying 3D
structures. Given the smooth motion of dynamic objects, we observe any element
in the dictionary can be well approximated by a sparse linear combination of
other elements in the same dictionary (i. e. self-expression). Moreover, the
sparse coefficients describing a locally linear 3D structural interpolation
reveal the local sequencing information. Our formulation optimizes a biconvex
cost function that leverages a compressed sensing formulation and enforces both
structural dependency coherence across video streams, as well as motion
smoothness across estimates from common video sources. We further analyze the
reconstructability of our approach under different capture scenarios, and its
comparison and relation to existing methods. Experimental results on large
amounts of synthetic data as well as real imagery demonstrate the effectiveness
of our approach.

133
Semantic 3D Reconstruction with Continuous Regularization and Ray Potentials Using a Visibility Consistency Constraint
2016-04-11
We propose an approach for dense semantic 3D reconstruction which uses a data term that is defined as potentials over viewing rays, combined with continuous surface area penalization. Our formulation is a convex relaxation which we augment with a crucial non-convex constraint that ensures exact handling of visibility. To tackle the non-convex minimization problem, we propose a majorize-minimize type strategy which converges to a critical point. We demonstrate the benefits of using the non-convex constraint experimentally. For the geometry-only case, we set a new state of the art on two datasets of the commonly used Middlebury multi-view stereo benchmark. Moreover, our general-purpose formulation directly reconstructs thin objects, which are usually treated with specialized algorithms. A qualitative evaluation on the dense semantic 3D reconstruction task shows that we improve significantly over previous methods.

134
UAV-based Autonomous Image Acquisition with Multi-View Stereo Quality Assurance by Confidence Prediction
2016-05-06
In this paper we present an autonomous system for acquiring close-range
high-resolution images that maximize the quality of a later-on 3D
reconstruction with respect to coverage, ground resolution and 3D uncertainty.
In contrast to previous work, our system uses the already acquired images to
predict the confidence in the output of a dense multi-view stereo approach
without executing it. This confidence encodes the likelihood of a successful
reconstruction with respect to the observed scene and potential camera
constellations. Our prediction module runs in real-time and can be trained
without any externally recorded ground truth. We use the confidence prediction
for on-site quality assurance and for planning further views that are tailored
for a specific multi-view stereo approach with respect to the given scene. We
demonstrate the capabilities of our approach with an autonomous Unmanned Aerial
Vehicle (UAV) in a challenging outdoor scenario.

135
Multiview Differential Geometry of Curves
2016-04-27
The field of multiple view geometry has seen tremendous progress in
reconstruction and calibration due to methods for extracting reliable point
features and key developments in projective geometry. Point features, however,
are not available in certain applications and result in unstructured point
cloud reconstructions. General image curves provide a complementary feature
when keypoints are scarce, and result in 3D curve geometry, but face challenges
not addressed by the usual projective geometry of points and algebraic curves.
We address these challenges by laying the theoretical foundations of a
framework based on the differential geometry of general curves, including
stationary curves, occluding contours, and non-rigid curves, aiming at stereo
correspondence, camera estimation (including calibration, pose, and multiview
epipolar geometry), and 3D reconstruction given measured image curves. By
gathering previous results into a cohesive theory, novel results were made
possible, yielding three contributions. First we derive the differential
geometry of an image curve (tangent, curvature, curvature derivative) from that
of the underlying space curve (tangent, curvature, curvature derivative,
torsion). Second, we derive the differential geometry of a space curve from
that of two corresponding image curves. Third, the differential motion of an
image curve is derived from camera motion and the differential geometry and
motion of the space curve. The availability of such a theory enables novel
curve-based multiview reconstruction and camera estimation systems to augment
existing point-based approaches. This theory has been used to reconstruct a "3D
curve sketch", to determine camera pose from local curve geometry, and
tracking; other developments are underway.

136
Automatic 3D Reconstruction of Manifold Meshes via Delaunay Triangulation and Mesh Sweeping
2016-04-21
In this paper we propose a new approach to incrementally initialize a
manifold surface for automatic 3D reconstruction from images. More precisely we
focus on the automatic initialization of a 3D mesh as close as possible to the
final solution; indeed many approaches require a good initial solution for
further refinement via multi-view stereo techniques. Our novel algorithm
automatically estimates an initial manifold mesh for surface evolving
multi-view stereo algorithms, where the manifold property needs to be enforced.
It bootstraps from 3D points extracted via Structure from Motion, then iterates
between a state-of-the-art manifold reconstruction step and a novel mesh
sweeping algorithm that looks for new 3D points in the neighborhood of the
reconstructed manifold to be added in the manifold reconstruction. The
experimental results show quantitatively that the mesh sweeping improves the
resolution and the accuracy of the manifold reconstruction, allowing a better
convergence of state-of-the-art surface evolution multi-view stereo algorithms.

137
Geometric Scene Parsing with Hierarchical LSTM
2016-04-07
This paper addresses the problem of geometric scene parsing, i.e.
simultaneously labeling geometric surfaces (e.g. sky, ground and vertical
plane) and determining the interaction relations (e.g. layering, supporting,
siding and affinity) between main regions. This problem is more challenging
than the traditional semantic scene labeling, as recovering geometric
structures necessarily requires the rich and diverse contextual information. To
achieve these goals, we propose a novel recurrent neural network model, named
Hierarchical Long Short-Term Memory (H-LSTM). It contains two coupled
sub-networks: the Pixel LSTM (P-LSTM) and the Multi-scale Super-pixel LSTM
(MS-LSTM) for handling the surface labeling and relation prediction,
respectively. The two sub-networks provide complementary information to each
other to exploit hierarchical scene contexts, and they are jointly optimized
for boosting the performance. Our extensive experiments show that our model is
capable of parsing scene geometric structures and outperforming several
state-of-the-art methods by large margins. In addition, we show promising 3D
reconstruction results from the still images based on the geometric parsing.

138
3D-R2N2: A Unified Approach for Single and Multi-view 3D Object Reconstruction
2016-04-02
Inspired by the recent success of methods that employ shape priors to achieve
robust 3D reconstructions, we propose a novel recurrent neural network
architecture that we call the 3D Recurrent Reconstruction Neural Network
(3D-R2N2). The network learns a mapping from images of objects to their
underlying 3D shapes from a large collection of synthetic data. Our network
takes in one or more images of an object instance from arbitrary viewpoints and
outputs a reconstruction of the object in the form of a 3D occupancy grid.
Unlike most of the previous works, our network does not require any image
annotations or object class labels for training or testing. Our extensive
experimental analysis shows that our reconstruction framework i) outperforms
the state-of-the-art methods for single view reconstruction, and ii) enables
the 3D reconstruction of objects in situations when traditional SFM/SLAM
methods fail (because of lack of texture and/or wide baseline).

139
An Approach for Noise Removal on Depth Images
2016-02-16
Image based rendering is a fundamental problem in computer vision and
graphics. Modern techniques often rely on depth image for the 3D construction.
However for most of the existing depth cameras, the large and unpredictable
noises can be problematic, which can cause noticeable artifacts in the rendered
results. In this paper, we proposed an efficacious method for depth image noise
removal that can be applied for most RGBD systems. The proposed solution will
benefit many subsequent vision problems such as 3D reconstruction, novel view
rendering, object recognition. Our experimental results demonstrate the
efficacy and accuracy.

140
Do We Need Binary Features for 3D Reconstruction?
2016-02-14
Binary features have been incrementally popular in the past few years due to
their low memory footprints and the efficient computation of Hamming distance
between binary descriptors. They have been shown with promising results on some
real time applications, e.g., SLAM, where the matching operations are relative
few. However, in computer vision, there are many applications such as 3D
reconstruction requiring lots of matching operations between local features.
Therefore, a natural question is that is the binary feature still a promising
solution to this kind of applications? To get the answer, this paper conducts a
comparative study of binary features and their matching methods on the context
of 3D reconstruction in a recently proposed large scale mutliview stereo
dataset. Our evaluations reveal that not all binary features are capable of
this task. Most of them are inferior to the classical SIFT based method in
terms of reconstruction accuracy and completeness with a not significant better
computational performance.

141
Virtual Rephotography: Novel View Prediction Error for 3D Reconstruction
2016-01-26
The ultimate goal of many image-based modeling systems is to render
photo-realistic novel views of a scene without visible artifacts. Existing
evaluation metrics and benchmarks focus mainly on the geometric accuracy of the
reconstructed model, which is, however, a poor predictor of visual accuracy.
Furthermore, using only geometric accuracy by itself does not allow evaluating
systems that either lack a geometric scene representation or utilize coarse
proxy geometry. Examples include light field or image-based rendering systems.
We propose a unified evaluation approach based on novel view prediction error
that is able to analyze the visual quality of any method that can render novel
views from input images. One of the key advantages of this approach is that it
does not require ground truth geometry. This dramatically simplifies the
creation of test datasets and benchmarks. It also allows us to evaluate the
quality of an unknown scene during the acquisition and reconstruction process,
which is useful for acquisition planning. We evaluate our approach on a range
of methods including standard geometry-plus-texture pipelines as well as
image-based rendering techniques, compare it to existing geometry-based
benchmarks, and demonstrate its utility for a range of use cases.

142
On the Diagnostic of Road Pathway Visibility
2016-01-21
Visibility distance on the road pathway plays a significant role in road
safety and in particular, has a clear impact on the choice of speed limits.
Visibility distance is thus of importance for road engineers and authorities.
While visibility distance criteria are routinely taken into account in road
design, only a few systems exist for estimating it on existing road networks.
Most existing systems comprise a target vehicle followed at a constant distance
by an observer vehicle, which only allows to check if a given, fixed visibility
distance is available. We propose two new approaches that allow estimating the
maximum available visibility distance, involving only one vehicle and based on
different sensor technologies, namely binocular stereovision and 3D range
sensing (LIDAR). The first approach is based on the processing of two views
taken by digital cameras onboard the diagnostic vehicle. The main stages of the
process are: road segmentation, edge registration between the two views, road
profile 3D reconstruction and finally, maximal road visibility distance
estimation. The second approach involves the use of a Terrestrial LIDAR Mobile
Mapping System. The triangulated 3D model of the road and its surroundings
provided by the system is used to simulate targets at different distances,
which allows estimating the maximum geometric visibility distance along the
pathway. These approaches were developed in the context of the SARI-VIZIR
PREDIT project. Both approaches are described, evaluated and compared. Their
pros and cons with respect to vehicle following systems are also discussed.

143
3D Reconstruction of Crime Scenes and Design Considerations for an Interactive Investigation Tool
2015-12-10
Crime Scene Investigation (CSI) is a carefully planned systematic process
with the purpose of acquiring physical evidences to shed light upon the
physical reality of the crime and eventually detect the identity of the
criminal. Capturing images and videos of the crime scene is an important part
of this process in order to conduct a deeper analysis on the digital evidence
for possible hints. This work brings this idea further to use the acquired
footage for generating a 3D model of the crime scene. Results show that
realistic reconstructions can be obtained using sophisticated computer vision
techniques. The paper also discusses a number of important design
considerations describing key features that should be present in a powerful
interactive CSI analysis tool.

144
A Brief Survey of Image Processing Algorithms in Electrical Capacitance Tomography
2015-10-15
To study the fundamental physics of complex multiphase flow systems using
advanced measurement techniques, especially the electrical capacitance
tomography (ECT) approach, this article carries out an initial literature
review of the ECT method from a point of view of signal processing and
algorithm design. After introducing the physical laws governing the ECT system,
we will focus on various reconstruction techniques that are capable to recover
the image of the internal characteristics of a specified region based on the
measuring capacitances of multi-electrode sensors surrounding the region. Each
technique has its own advantages and limitations, and many algorithms have been
examined by simulations or experiments. Future researches in 3D reconstruction
and other potential improvements of the system are discussed in the end.

145
Euclidean Auto Calibration of Camera Networks: Baseline Constraint Removes Scale Ambiguity
2015-10-06
Metric auto calibration of a camera network from multiple views has been
reported by several authors. Resulting 3D reconstruction recovers shape
faithfully, but not scale. However, preservation of scale becomes critical in
applications, such as multi-party telepresence, where multiple 3D scenes need
to be fused into a single coordinate system. In this context, we propose a
camera network configuration that includes a stereo pair with known baseline
separation, and analytically demonstrate Euclidean auto calibration of such
network under mild conditions. Further, we experimentally validate our theory
using a four-camera network. Importantly, our method not only recovers scale,
but also compares favorably with the well known Zhang and Pollefeys methods in
terms of shape recovery.

146
Dense image registration and deformable surface reconstruction in presence of occlusions and minimal texture
2015-03-11
Deformable surface tracking from monocular images is well-known to be
under-constrained. Occlusions often make the task even more challenging, and
can result in failure if the surface is not sufficiently textured. In this
work, we explicitly address the problem of 3D reconstruction of poorly
textured, occluded surfaces, proposing a framework based on a template-matching
approach that scales dense robust features by a relevancy score. Our approach
is extensively compared to current methods employing both local feature
matching and dense template alignment. We test on standard datasets as well as
on a new dataset (that will be made publicly available) of a sparsely textured,
occluded surface. Our framework achieves state-of-the-art results for both well
and poorly textured, occluded surfaces.

147
InAR:Inverse Augmented Reality
2015-08-11
Augmented reality is the art to seamlessly fuse virtual objects into real
ones. In this short note, we address the opposite problem, the inverse
augmented reality, that is, given a perfectly augmented reality scene where
human is unable to distinguish real objects from virtual ones, how the machine
could help do the job. We show by structure from motion (SFM), a simple 3D
reconstruction technique from images in computer vision, the real and virtual
objects can be easily separated in the reconstructed 3D scene.

148
Efficient moving point handling for incremental 3D manifold reconstruction
2015-07-20
As incremental Structure from Motion algorithms become effective, a good
sparse point cloud representing the map of the scene becomes available
frame-by-frame. From the 3D Delaunay triangulation of these points,
state-of-the-art algorithms build a manifold rough model of the scene. These
algorithms integrate incrementally new points to the 3D reconstruction only if
their position estimate does not change. Indeed, whenever a point moves in a 3D
Delaunay triangulation, for instance because its estimation gets refined, a set
of tetrahedra have to be removed and replaced with new ones to maintain the
Delaunay property; the management of the manifold reconstruction becomes thus
complex and it entails a potentially big overhead. In this paper we investigate
different approaches and we propose an efficient policy to deal with moving
points in the manifold estimation process. We tested our approach with four
sequences of the KITTI dataset and we show the effectiveness of our proposal in
comparison with state-of-the-art approaches.

149
Robust Performance-driven 3D Face Tracking in Long Range Depth Scenes
2015-07-10
We introduce a novel robust hybrid 3D face tracking framework from RGBD video
streams, which is capable of tracking head pose and facial actions without
pre-calibration or intervention from a user. In particular, we emphasize on
improving the tracking performance in instances where the tracked subject is at
a large distance from the cameras, and the quality of point cloud deteriorates
severely. This is accomplished by the combination of a flexible 3D shape
regressor and the joint 2D+3D optimization on shape parameters. Our approach
fits facial blendshapes to the point cloud of the human head, while being
driven by an efficient and rapid 3D shape regressor trained on generic RGB
datasets. As an on-line tracking system, the identity of the unknown user is
adapted on-the-fly resulting in improved 3D model reconstruction and
consequently better tracking performance. The result is a robust RGBD face
tracker, capable of handling a wide range of target scene depths, beyond those
that can be afforded by traditional depth or RGB face trackers. Lastly, since
the blendshape is not able to accurately recover the real facial shape, we use
the tracked 3D face model as a prior in a novel filtering process to further
refine the depth map for use in other tasks, such as 3D reconstruction.

150
Autonomous 3D Reconstruction Using a MAV
2015-06-23
An approach is proposed for high resolution 3D reconstruction of an object
using a Micro Air Vehicle (MAV). A system is described which autonomously
captures images and performs a dense 3D reconstruction via structure from
motion with no prior knowledge of the environment. Only the MAVs own sensors,
the front facing camera and the Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) are utilized.
Precision agriculture is considered as an example application for the system.

151
3D Reconstruction from Full-view Fisheye Camera
2015-06-20
In this report, we proposed a 3D reconstruction method for the full-view
fisheye camera. The camera we used is Ricoh Theta, which captures spherical
images and has a wide field of view (FOV). The conventional stereo apporach
based on perspective camera model cannot be directly applied and instead we
used a spherical camera model to depict the relation between 3D point and its
corresponding observation in the image. We implemented a system that can
reconstruct the 3D scene using captures from two or more cameras. A GUI is also
created to allow users to control the view perspective and obtain a better
intuition of how the scene is rebuilt. Experiments showed that our
reconstruction results well preserved the structure of the scene in the real
world.

152
Resolving Scale Ambiguity Via XSlit Aspect Ratio Analysis
2015-06-14
In perspective cameras, images of a frontal-parallel 3D object preserve its
aspect ratio invariant to its depth. Such an invariance is useful in
photography but is unique to perspective projection. In this paper, we show
that alternative non-perspective cameras such as the crossed-slit or XSlit
cameras exhibit a different depth-dependent aspect ratio (DDAR) property that
can be used to 3D recovery. We first conduct a comprehensive analysis to
characterize DDAR, infer object depth from its AR, and model recoverable depth
range, sensitivity, and error. We show that repeated shape patterns in real
Manhattan World scenes can be used for 3D reconstruction using a single XSlit
image. We also extend our analysis to model slopes of lines. Specifically,
parallel 3D lines exhibit depth-dependent slopes (DDS) on their images which
can also be used to infer their depths. We validate our analyses using real
XSlit cameras, XSlit panoramas, and catadioptric mirrors. Experiments show that
DDAR and DDS provide important depth cues and enable effective single-image
scene reconstruction.

153
Tunnel Surface 3D Reconstruction from Unoriented Image Sequences
2015-05-22
The 3D documentation of the tunnel surface during construction requires fast
and robust measurement systems. In the solution proposed in this paper, during
tunnel advance a single camera is taking pictures of the tunnel surface from
several positions. The recorded images are automatically processed to gain a 3D
tunnel surface model. Image acquisition is realized by the
tunneling/advance/driving personnel close to the tunnel face (= the front end
of the advance). Based on the following fully automatic analysis/evaluation, a
decision on the quality of the outbreak can be made within a few minutes. This
paper describes the image recording system and conditions as well as the
stereo-photogrammetry based workflow for the continuously merged dense 3D
reconstruction of the entire advance region. Geo-reference is realized by means
of signalized targets that are automatically detected in the images. We report
on the results of recent testing under real construction conditions, and
conclude with prospects for further development in terms of on-site
performance.

154
Efficient Image-Space Extraction and Representation of 3D Surface Topography
2015-04-30
Surface topography refers to the geometric micro-structure of a surface and
defines its tactile characteristics (typically in the sub-millimeter range).
High-resolution 3D scanning techniques developed recently enable the 3D
reconstruction of surfaces including their surface topography. In his paper, we
present an efficient image-space technique for the extraction of surface
topography from high-resolution 3D reconstructions. Additionally, we filter
noise and enhance topographic attributes to obtain an improved representation
for subsequent topography classification. Comprehensive experiments show that
the our representation captures well topographic attributes and significantly
improves classification performance compared to alternative 2D and 3D
representations.

155
Building Proteins in a Day: Efficient 3D Molecular Reconstruction
2015-04-14
Discovering the 3D atomic structure of molecules such as proteins and viruses
is a fundamental research problem in biology and medicine. Electron
Cryomicroscopy (Cryo-EM) is a promising vision-based technique for structure
estimation which attempts to reconstruct 3D structures from 2D images. This
paper addresses the challenging problem of 3D reconstruction from 2D Cryo-EM
images. A new framework for estimation is introduced which relies on modern
stochastic optimization techniques to scale to large datasets. We also
introduce a novel technique which reduces the cost of evaluating the objective
function during optimization by over five orders or magnitude. The net result
is an approach capable of estimating 3D molecular structure from large scale
datasets in about a day on a single workstation.

156
Clustering Assisted Fundamental Matrix Estimation
2015-04-14
In computer vision, the estimation of the fundamental matrix is a basic
problem that has been extensively studied. The accuracy of the estimation
imposes a significant influence on subsequent tasks such as the camera
trajectory determination and 3D reconstruction. In this paper we propose a new
method for fundamental matrix estimation that makes use of clustering a group
of 4D vectors. The key insight is the observation that among the 4D vectors
constructed from matching pairs of points obtained from the SIFT algorithm,
well-defined cluster points tend to be reliable inliers suitable for
fundamental matrix estimation. Based on this, we utilizes a recently proposed
efficient clustering method through density peaks seeking and propose a new
clustering assisted method. Experimental results show that the proposed
algorithm is faster and more accurate than currently commonly used methods.

157
MOTChallenge 2015: Towards a Benchmark for Multi-Target Tracking
2015-04-08
In the recent past, the computer vision community has developed centralized
benchmarks for the performance evaluation of a variety of tasks, including
generic object and pedestrian detection, 3D reconstruction, optical flow,
single-object short-term tracking, and stereo estimation. Despite potential
pitfalls of such benchmarks, they have proved to be extremely helpful to
advance the state of the art in the respective area. Interestingly, there has
been rather limited work on the standardization of quantitative benchmarks for
multiple target tracking. One of the few exceptions is the well-known PETS
dataset, targeted primarily at surveillance applications. Despite being widely
used, it is often applied inconsistently, for example involving using different
subsets of the available data, different ways of training the models, or
differing evaluation scripts. This paper describes our work toward a novel
multiple object tracking benchmark aimed to address such issues. We discuss the
challenges of creating such a framework, collecting existing and new data,
gathering state-of-the-art methods to be tested on the datasets, and finally
creating a unified evaluation system. With MOTChallenge we aim to pave the way
toward a unified evaluation framework for a more meaningful quantification of
multi-target tracking.

158
ROML: A Robust Feature Correspondence Approach for Matching Objects in A Set of Images
2014-03-31
Feature-based object matching is a fundamental problem for many applications
in computer vision, such as object recognition, 3D reconstruction, tracking,
and motion segmentation. In this work, we consider simultaneously matching
object instances in a set of images, where both inlier and outlier features are
extracted. The task is to identify the inlier features and establish their
consistent correspondences across the image set. This is a challenging
combinatorial problem, and the problem complexity grows exponentially with the
image number. To this end, we propose a novel framework, termed ROML, to
address this problem. ROML optimizes simultaneously a partial permutation
matrix (PPM) for each image, and feature correspondences are established by the
obtained PPMs. Two of our key contributions are summarized as follows. (1) We
formulate the problem as rank and sparsity minimization for PPM optimization,
and treat simultaneous optimization of multiple PPMs as a regularized consensus
problem in the context of distributed optimization. (2) We use the ADMM method
to solve the thus formulated ROML problem, in which a subproblem associated
with a single PPM optimization appears to be a difficult integer quadratic
program (IQP). We prove that under wildly applicable conditions, this IQP is
equivalent to a linear sum assignment problem (LSAP), which can be efficiently
solved to an exact solution. Extensive experiments on rigid/non-rigid object
matching, matching instances of a common object category, and common object
localization show the efficacy of our proposed method.

159
PiMPeR: Piecewise Dense 3D Reconstruction from Multi-View and Multi-Illumination Images
2015-03-16
In this paper, we address the problem of dense 3D reconstruction from
multiple view images subject to strong lighting variations. In this regard, a
new piecewise framework is proposed to explicitly take into account the change
of illumination across several wide-baseline images. Unlike multi-view stereo
and multi-view photometric stereo methods, this pipeline deals with
wide-baseline images that are uncalibrated, in terms of both camera parameters
and lighting conditions. Such a scenario is meant to avoid use of any specific
imaging setup and provide a tool for normal users without any expertise. To the
best of our knowledge, this paper presents the first work that deals with such
unconstrained setting. We propose a coarse-to-fine approach, in which a coarse
mesh is first created using a set of geometric constraints and, then, fine
details are recovered by exploiting photometric properties of the scene.
Augmenting the fine details on the coarse mesh is done via a final optimization
step. Note that the method does not provide a generic solution for multi-view
photometric stereo problem but it relaxes several common assumptions of this
problem. The approach scales very well in size given its piecewise nature,
dealing with large scale optimization and with severe missing data. Experiments
on a benchmark dataset Robot data-set show the method performance against 3D
ground truth.

160
Building with Drones: Accurate 3D Facade Reconstruction using MAVs
2015-02-25
Automatic reconstruction of 3D models from images using multi-view
Structure-from-Motion methods has been one of the most fruitful outcomes of
computer vision. These advances combined with the growing popularity of Micro
Aerial Vehicles as an autonomous imaging platform, have made 3D vision tools
ubiquitous for large number of Architecture, Engineering and Construction
applications among audiences, mostly unskilled in computer vision. However, to
obtain high-resolution and accurate reconstructions from a large-scale object
using SfM, there are many critical constraints on the quality of image data,
which often become sources of inaccuracy as the current 3D reconstruction
pipelines do not facilitate the users to determine the fidelity of input data
during the image acquisition. In this paper, we present and advocate a
closed-loop interactive approach that performs incremental reconstruction in
real-time and gives users an online feedback about the quality parameters like
Ground Sampling Distance (GSD), image redundancy, etc on a surface mesh. We
also propose a novel multi-scale camera network design to prevent scene drift
caused by incremental map building, and release the first multi-scale image
sequence dataset as a benchmark. Further, we evaluate our system on real
outdoor scenes, and show that our interactive pipeline combined with a
multi-scale camera network approach provides compelling accuracy in multi-view
reconstruction tasks when compared against the state-of-the-art methods.

161
RANSAC based three points algorithm for ellipse fitting of spherical object's projection
2015-01-30
As the spherical object can be seen everywhere, we should extract the ellipse
image accurately and fit it by implicit algebraic curve in order to finish the
3D reconstruction. In this paper, we propose a new ellipse fitting algorithm
which only needs three points to fit the projection of spherical object and is
different from the traditional algorithms that need at least five point. The
fitting procedure is just similar as the estimation of Fundamental Matrix
estimation by seven points, and the RANSAC algorithm has also been used to
exclude the interference of noise and scattered points.

162
Computer-assisted polyp matching between optical colonoscopy and CT colonography: a phantom study
2015-01-15
Potentially precancerous polyps detected with CT colonography (CTC) need to
be removed subsequently, using an optical colonoscope (OC). Due to large
colonic deformations induced by the colonoscope, even very experienced
colonoscopists find it difficult to pinpoint the exact location of the
colonoscope tip in relation to polyps reported on CTC. This can cause unduly
prolonged OC examinations that are stressful for the patient, colonoscopist and
supporting staff.
  We developed a method, based on monocular 3D reconstruction from OC images,
that automatically matches polyps observed in OC with polyps reported on prior
CTC. A matching cost is computed, using rigid point-based registration between
surface point clouds extracted from both modalities. A 3D printed and painted
phantom of a 25 cm long transverse colon segment was used to validate the
method on two medium sized polyps. Results indicate that the matching cost is
smaller at the correct corresponding polyp between OC and CTC: the value is 3.9
times higher at the incorrect polyp, comparing the correct match between polyps
to the incorrect match. Furthermore, we evaluate the matching of the
reconstructed polyp from OC with other colonic endoluminal surface structures
such as haustral folds and show that there is a minimum at the correct polyp
from CTC.
  Automated matching between polyps observed at OC and prior CTC would
facilitate the biopsy or removal of true-positive pathology or exclusion of
false-positive CTC findings, and would reduce colonoscopy false-negative
(missed) polyps. Ultimately, such a method might reduce healthcare costs,
patient inconvenience and discomfort.

163
A Framework for the Volumetric Integration of Depth Images
2014-10-03
Volumetric models have become a popular representation for 3D scenes in
recent years. One of the breakthroughs leading to their popularity was
KinectFusion, where the focus is on 3D reconstruction using RGB-D sensors.
However, monocular SLAM has since also been tackled with very similar
approaches. Representing the reconstruction volumetrically as a truncated
signed distance function leads to most of the simplicity and efficiency that
can be achieved with GPU implementations of these systems. However, this
representation is also memory-intensive and limits the applicability to small
scale reconstructions. Several avenues have been explored for overcoming this
limitation. With the aim of summarizing them and providing for a fast and
flexible 3D reconstruction pipeline, we propose a new, unifying framework
called InfiniTAM. The core idea is that individual steps like camera tracking,
scene representation and integration of new data can easily be replaced and
adapted to the needs of the user. Along with the framework we also provide a
set of components for scalable reconstruction: two implementations of camera
trackers, based on RGB data and on depth data, two representations of the 3D
volumetric data, a dense volume and one based on hashes of subblocks, and an
optional module for swapping subblocks in and out of the typically limited GPU
memory.

164
Autocalibration with the Minimum Number of Cameras with Known Pixel Shape
2012-03-05
In 3D reconstruction, the recovery of the calibration parameters of the
cameras is paramount since it provides metric information about the observed
scene, e.g., measures of angles and ratios of distances. Autocalibration
enables the estimation of the camera parameters without using a calibration
device, but by enforcing simple constraints on the camera parameters. In the
absence of information about the internal camera parameters such as the focal
length and the principal point, the knowledge of the camera pixel shape is
usually the only available constraint. Given a projective reconstruction of a
rigid scene, we address the problem of the autocalibration of a minimal set of
cameras with known pixel shape and otherwise arbitrarily varying intrinsic and
extrinsic parameters. We propose an algorithm that only requires 5 cameras (the
theoretical minimum), thus halving the number of cameras required by previous
algorithms based on the same constraint. To this purpose, we introduce as our
basic geometric tool the six-line conic variety (SLCV), consisting in the set
of planes intersecting six given lines of 3D space in points of a conic. We
show that the set of solutions of the Euclidean upgrading problem for three
cameras with known pixel shape can be parameterized in a computationally
efficient way. This parameterization is then used to solve autocalibration from
five or more cameras, reducing the three-dimensional search space to a
two-dimensional one. We provide experiments with real images showing the good
performance of the technique.

165
G2D: from GTA to Data
2018-06-16
This document describes G2D, a software that enables capturing videos from
Grand Theft Auto V (GTA V), a popular role playing game set in an expansive
virtual city. The target users of our software are computer vision researchers
who wish to collect hyper-realistic computer-generated imagery of a city from
the street level, under controlled 6DOF camera poses and varying environmental
conditions (weather, season, time of day, traffic density, etc.).
  G2D accesses/calls the native functions of the game; hence users can directly
interact with G2D while playing the game. Specifically, G2D enables users to
manipulate conditions of the virtual environment on the fly, while the gameplay
camera is set to automatically retrace a predetermined 6DOF camera pose
trajectory within the game coordinate system. Concurrently, automatic screen
capture is executed while the virtual environment is being explored. G2D and
its source code are publicly available at https://goo.gl/SS7fS6
  In addition, we demonstrate an application of G2D to generate a large-scale
dataset with groundtruth camera poses for testing structure-from-motion (SfM)
algorithms. The dataset and generated 3D point clouds are also made available
at https://goo.gl/DNzxHx

166
Road surface 3d reconstruction based on dense subpixel disparity map estimation
2018-07-05
Various 3D reconstruction methods have enabled civil engineers to detect damage on a road surface. To achieve the millimetre accuracy required for road condition assessment, a disparity map with subpixel resolution needs to be used. However, none of the existing stereo matching algorithms are specially suitable for the reconstruction of the road surface. Hence in this paper, we propose a novel dense subpixel disparity estimation algorithm with high computational efficiency and robustness. This is achieved by first transforming the perspective view of the target frame into the reference view, which not only increases the accuracy of the block matching for the road surface but also improves the processing speed. The disparities are then estimated iteratively using our previously published algorithm where the search range is propagated from three estimated neighbouring disparities. Since the search range is obtained from the previous iteration, errors may occur when the propagated search range is not sufficient. Therefore, a correlation maxima verification is performed to rectify this issue, and the subpixel resolution is achieved by conducting a parabola interpolation enhancement. Furthermore, a novel disparity global refinement approach developed from the Markov Random Fields and Fast Bilateral Stereo is introduced to further improve the accuracy of the estimated disparity map, where disparities are updated iteratively by minimising the energy function that is related to their interpolated correlation polynomials. The algorithm is implemented in C language with a near real-time performance. The experimental results illustrate that the absolute error of the reconstruction varies from 0.1 mm to 3 mm.

167
Combining SLAM with muti-spectral photometric stereo for real-time dense 3D reconstruction
2018-07-06
Obtaining dense 3D reconstrution with low computational cost is one of the
important goals in the field of SLAM. In this paper we propose a dense 3D
reconstruction framework from monocular multispectral video sequences using
jointly semi-dense SLAM and Multispectral Photometric Stereo approaches.
Starting from multispectral video, SALM (a) reconstructs a semi-dense 3D shape
that will be densified;(b) recovers relative sparse depth map that is then fed
as prioris into optimization-based multispectral photometric stereo for a more
accurate dense surface normal recovery;(c)obtains camera pose that is
subsequently used for conversion of view in the process of fusion where we
combine the relative sparse point cloud with the dense surface normal using the
automated cross-scale fusion method proposed in this paper to get a dense point
cloud with subtle texture information. Experiments show that our method can
effectively obtain denser 3D reconstructions.

168
Deep Virtual Stereo Odometry: Leveraging Deep Depth Prediction for Monocular Direct Sparse Odometry
2018-07-06
Monocular visual odometry approaches that purely rely on geometric cues are
prone to scale drift and require sufficient motion parallax in successive
frames for motion estimation and 3D reconstruction. In this paper, we propose
to leverage deep monocular depth prediction to overcome limitations of
geometry-based monocular visual odometry. To this end, we incorporate deep
depth predictions into Direct Sparse Odometry (DSO) as direct virtual stereo
measurements. For depth prediction, we design a novel deep network that refines
predicted depth from a single image in a two-stage process. We train our
network in a semi-supervised way on photoconsistency in stereo images and on
consistency with accurate sparse depth reconstructions from Stereo DSO. Our
deep predictions excel state-of-the-art approaches for monocular depth on the
KITTI benchmark. Moreover, our Deep Virtual Stereo Odometry clearly exceeds
previous monocular and deep learning based methods in accuracy. It even
achieves comparable performance to the state-of-the-art stereo methods, while
only relying on a single camera.

169
Specular-to-Diffuse Translation for Multi-View Reconstruction
2018-07-14
Most multi-view 3D reconstruction algorithms, especially when
shape-from-shading cues are used, assume that object appearance is
predominantly diffuse. To alleviate this restriction, we introduce S2Dnet, a
generative adversarial network for transferring multiple views of objects with
specular reflection into diffuse ones, so that multi-view reconstruction
methods can be applied more effectively. Our network extends unsupervised
image-to-image translation to multi-view "specular to diffuse" translation. To
preserve object appearance across multiple views, we introduce a Multi-View
Coherence loss (MVC) that evaluates the similarity and faithfulness of local
patches after the view-transformation. Our MVC loss ensures that the similarity
of local correspondences among multi-view images is preserved under the
image-to-image translation. As a result, our network yields significantly
better results than several single-view baseline techniques. In addition, we
carefully design and generate a large synthetic training data set using
physically-based rendering. During testing, our network takes only the raw
glossy images as input, without extra information such as segmentation masks or
lighting estimation. Results demonstrate that multi-view reconstruction can be
significantly improved using the images filtered by our network. We also show
promising performance on real world training and testing data.

170
GeoDesc: Learning Local Descriptors by Integrating Geometry Constraints
2018-07-17
Learned local descriptors based on Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have
achieved significant improvements on patch-based benchmarks, whereas not having
demonstrated strong generalization ability on recent benchmarks of image-based
3D reconstruction. In this paper, we mitigate this limitation by proposing a
novel local descriptor learning approach that integrates geometry constraints
from multi-view reconstructions, which benefits the learning process in terms
of data generation, data sampling and loss computation. We refer to the
proposed descriptor as GeoDesc, and demonstrate its superior performance on
various large-scale benchmarks, and in particular show its great success on
challenging reconstruction tasks. Moreover, we provide guidelines towards
practical integration of learned descriptors in Structure-from-Motion (SfM)
pipelines, showing the good trade-off that GeoDesc delivers to 3D
reconstruction tasks between accuracy and efficiency.

171
Semi-Dense 3D Reconstruction with a Stereo Event Camera
2018-07-19
Event cameras are bio-inspired sensors that offer several advantages, such as
low latency, high-speed and high dynamic range, to tackle challenging scenarios
in computer vision. This paper presents a solution to the problem of 3D
reconstruction from data captured by a stereo event-camera rig moving in a
static scene, such as in the context of stereo Simultaneous Localization and
Mapping. The proposed method consists of the optimization of an energy function
designed to exploit small-baseline spatio-temporal consistency of events
triggered across both stereo image planes. To improve the density of the
reconstruction and to reduce the uncertainty of the estimation, a probabilistic
depth-fusion strategy is also developed. The resulting method has no special
requirements on either the motion of the stereo event-camera rig or on prior
knowledge about the scene. Experiments demonstrate our method can deal with
both texture-rich scenes as well as sparse scenes, outperforming
state-of-the-art stereo methods based on event data image representations.

172
ChESS - Quick and Robust Detection of Chess-board Features
2013-01-23
Localization of chess-board vertices is a common task in computer vision,
underpinning many applications, but relatively little work focusses on
designing a specific feature detector that is fast, accurate and robust. In
this paper the `Chess-board Extraction by Subtraction and Summation' (ChESS)
feature detector, designed to exclusively respond to chess-board vertices, is
presented. The method proposed is robust against noise, poor lighting and poor
contrast, requires no prior knowledge of the extent of the chess-board pattern,
is computationally very efficient, and provides a strength measure of detected
features. Such a detector has significant application both in the key field of
camera calibration, as well as in Structured Light 3D reconstruction. Evidence
is presented showing its robustness, accuracy, and efficiency in comparison to
other commonly used detectors both under simulation and in experimental 3D
reconstruction of flat plate and cylindrical objects

173
3D-LMNet: Latent Embedding Matching for Accurate and Diverse 3D Point Cloud Reconstruction from a Single Image
2018-07-20
3D reconstruction from single view images is an ill-posed problem. Inferring
the hidden regions from self-occluded images is both challenging and ambiguous.
We propose a two-pronged approach to address these issues. To better
incorporate the data prior and generate meaningful reconstructions, we propose
3D-LMNet, a latent embedding matching approach for 3D reconstruction. We first
train a 3D point cloud auto-encoder and then learn a mapping from the 2D image
to the corresponding learnt embedding. To tackle the issue of uncertainty in
the reconstruction, we predict multiple reconstructions that are consistent
with the input view. This is achieved by learning a probablistic latent space
with a novel view-specific diversity loss. Thorough quantitative and
qualitative analysis is performed to highlight the significance of the proposed
approach. We outperform state-of-the-art approaches on the task of single-view
3D reconstruction on both real and synthetic datasets while generating multiple
plausible reconstructions, demonstrating the generalizability and utility of
our approach.

174
Learning to Generate and Reconstruct 3D Meshes with only 2D Supervision
2018-07-24
We present a unified framework tackling two problems: class-specific 3D
reconstruction from a single image, and generation of new 3D shape samples.
These tasks have received considerable attention recently; however, existing
approaches rely on 3D supervision, annotation of 2D images with keypoints or
poses, and/or training with multiple views of each object instance. Our
framework is very general: it can be trained in similar settings to these
existing approaches, while also supporting weaker supervision scenarios.
Importantly, it can be trained purely from 2D images, without ground-truth pose
annotations, and with a single view per instance. We employ meshes as an output
representation, instead of voxels used in most prior work. This allows us to
exploit shading information during training, which previous 2D-supervised
methods cannot. Thus, our method can learn to generate and reconstruct concave
object classes. We evaluate our approach on synthetic data in various settings,
showing that (i) it learns to disentangle shape from pose; (ii) using shading
in the loss improves performance; (iii) our model is comparable or superior to
state-of-the-art voxel-based approaches on quantitative metrics, while
producing results that are visually more pleasing; (iv) it still performs well
when given supervision weaker than in prior works.

175
The Double Sphere Camera Model
2018-07-24
Vision-based motion estimation and 3D reconstruction, which have numerous
applications (e.g., autonomous driving, navigation systems for airborne devices
and augmented reality) are receiving significant research attention. To
increase the accuracy and robustness, several researchers have recently
demonstrated the benefit of using large field-of-view cameras for such
applications. In this paper, we provide an extensive review of existing models
for large field-of-view cameras. For each model we provide projection and
unprojection functions and the subspace of points that result in valid
projection. Then, we propose the Double Sphere camera model that well fits with
large field-of-view lenses, is computationally inexpensive and has a
closed-form inverse. We evaluate the model using a calibration dataset with
several different lenses and compare the models using the metrics that are
relevant for Visual Odometry, i.e., reprojection error, as well as computation
time for projection and unprojection functions and their Jacobians. We also
provide qualitative results and discuss the performance of all models.

176
From handcrafted to deep local features
2018-07-26
This paper presents an overview of the evolution of local features from handcrafted to deep-learning-based methods, followed by a discussion of several benchmarks and papers evaluating such local features. Our investigations are motivated by 3D reconstruction problems, where the precise location of the features is important. As we describe these methods, we highlight and explain the challenges of feature extraction and potential ways to overcome them. We first present handcrafted methods, followed by methods based on classical machine learning and finally we discuss methods based on deep-learning. This largely chronologically-ordered presentation will help the reader to fully understand the topic of image and region description in order to make best use of it in modern computer vision applications. In particular, understanding handcrafted methods and their motivation can help to understand modern approaches and how machine learning is used to improve the results. We also provide references to most of the relevant literature and code.

177
Geo-Supervised Visual Depth Prediction
2018-07-30
We propose using global orientation from inertial measurements, and the bias it induces on the shape of objects populating the scene, to inform visual 3D reconstruction. We test the effect of using the resulting prior in depth prediction from a single image, where the normal vectors to surfaces of objects of certain classes tend to align with gravity or be orthogonal to it. Adding such a prior to baseline methods for monocular depth prediction yields improvements beyond the state-of-the-art and illustrates the power of gravity as a supervisory signal.

178
Towards ultra-high resolution 3D reconstruction of a whole rat brain from 3D-PLI data
2018-07-29
3D reconstruction of the fiber connectivity of the rat brain at microscopic
scale enables gaining detailed insight about the complex structural
organization of the brain. We introduce a new method for registration and 3D
reconstruction of high- and ultra-high resolution (64 $\mu$m and 1.3 $\mu$m
pixel size) histological images of a Wistar rat brain acquired by 3D polarized
light imaging (3D-PLI). Our method exploits multi-scale and multi-modal 3D-PLI
data up to cellular resolution. We propose a new feature transform-based
similarity measure and a weighted regularization scheme for accurate and robust
non-rigid registration. To transform the 1.3 $\mu$m ultra-high resolution data
to the reference blockface images a feature-based registration method followed
by a non-rigid registration is proposed. Our approach has been successfully
applied to 278 histological sections of a rat brain and the performance has
been quantitatively evaluated using manually placed landmarks by an expert.

179
Robust Attentional Aggregation of Deep Feature Sets for Multi-view 3D Reconstruction
2018-08-02
We study the problem of recovering an underlying 3D shape from a set of images. Existing learning based approaches usually resort to recurrent neural nets, e.g., GRU, or intuitive pooling operations, e.g., max/mean poolings, to fuse multiple deep features encoded from input images. However, GRU based approaches are unable to consistently estimate 3D shapes given different permutations of the same set of input images as the recurrent unit is permutation variant. It is also unlikely to refine the 3D shape given more images due to the long-term memory loss of GRU. Commonly used pooling approaches are limited to capturing partial information, e.g., max/mean values, ignoring other valuable features. In this paper, we present a new feed-forward neural module, named AttSets, together with a dedicated training algorithm, named FASet, to attentively aggregate an arbitrarily sized deep feature set for multi-view 3D reconstruction. The AttSets module is permutation invariant, computationally efficient and flexible to implement, while the FASet algorithm enables the AttSets based network to be remarkably robust and generalize to an arbitrary number of input images. We thoroughly evaluate FASet and the properties of AttSets on multiple large public datasets. Extensive experiments show that AttSets together with FASet algorithm significantly outperforms existing aggregation approaches.

180
Fast and Accurate Camera Covariance Computation for Large 3D Reconstruction
2018-08-07
Estimating uncertainty of camera parameters computed in Structure from Motion
(SfM) is an important tool for evaluating the quality of the reconstruction and
guiding the reconstruction process. Yet, the quality of the estimated
parameters of large reconstructions has been rarely evaluated due to the
computational challenges. We present a new algorithm which employs the sparsity
of the uncertainty propagation and speeds the computation up about ten times
\wrt previous approaches. Our computation is accurate and does not use any
approximations. We can compute uncertainties of thousands of cameras in tens of
seconds on a standard PC. We also demonstrate that our approach can be
effectively used for reconstructions of any size by applying it to smaller
sub-reconstructions.

181
A Generic Multi-Projection-Center Model and Calibration Method for Light Field Cameras
2018-08-07
Light field cameras can capture both spatial and angular information of light
rays, enabling 3D reconstruction by a single exposure. The geometry of 3D
reconstruction is affected by intrinsic parameters of a light field camera
significantly. In the paper, we propose a multi-projection-center (MPC) model
with 6 intrinsic parameters to characterize light field cameras based on
traditional two-parallel-plane (TPP) representation. The MPC model can
generally parameterize light field in different imaging formations, including
conventional and focused light field cameras. By the constraints of 4D ray and
3D geometry, a 3D projective transformation is deduced to describe the
relationship between geometric structure and the MPC coordinates. Based on the
MPC model and projective transformation, we propose a calibration algorithm to
verify our light field camera model. Our calibration method includes a
close-form solution and a non-linear optimization by minimizing re-projection
errors. Experimental results on both simulated and real scene data have
verified the performance of our algorithm.

182
Deep Learned Full-3D Object Completion from Single View
2018-08-21
3D geometry is a very informative cue when interacting with and navigating an
environment. This writing proposes a new approach to 3D reconstruction and
scene understanding, which implicitly learns 3D geometry from depth maps
pairing a deep convolutional neural network architecture with an auto-encoder.
A data set of synthetic depth views and voxelized 3D representations is built
based on ModelNet, a large-scale collection of CAD models, to train networks.
The proposed method offers a significant advantage over current, explicit
reconstruction methods in that it learns key geometric features offline and
makes use of those to predict the most probable reconstruction of an unseen
object. The relatively small network, consisting of roughly 4 million weights,
achieves a 92.9% reconstruction accuracy at a 30x30x30 resolution through the
use of a pre-trained decompression layer. This is roughly 1/4 the weights of
the current leading network. The fast execution time of the model makes it
suitable for real-time applications.

183
Scale Drift Correction of Camera Geo-Localization using Geo-Tagged Images
2018-08-26
Camera geo-localization from a monocular video is a fundamental task for
video analysis and autonomous navigation. Although 3D reconstruction is a key
technique to obtain camera poses, monocular 3D reconstruction in a large
environment tends to result in the accumulation of errors in rotation,
translation, and especially in scale: a problem known as scale drift. To
overcome these errors, we propose a novel framework that integrates incremental
structure from motion (SfM) and a scale drift correction method utilizing
geo-tagged images, such as those provided by Google Street View. Our correction
method begins by obtaining sparse 6-DoF correspondences between the
reconstructed 3D map coordinate system and the world coordinate system, by
using geo-tagged images. Then, it corrects scale drift by applying pose graph
optimization over Sim(3) constraints and bundle adjustment. Experimental
evaluations on large-scale datasets show that the proposed framework not only
sufficiently corrects scale drift, but also achieves accurate geo-localization
in a kilometer-scale environment.

184
On Learning 3D Face Morphable Model from In-the-wild Images
2018-08-28
As a classic statistical model of 3D facial shape and albedo, 3D Morphable Model (3DMM) is widely used in facial analysis, e.g., model fitting, image synthesis. Conventional 3DMM is learned from a set of 3D face scans with associated well-controlled 2D face images, and represented by two sets of PCA basis functions. Due to the type and amount of training data, as well as, the linear bases, the representation power of 3DMM can be limited. To address these problems, this paper proposes an innovative framework to learn a nonlinear 3DMM model from a large set of in-the-wild face images, without collecting 3D face scans. Specifically, given a face image as input, a network encoder estimates the projection, lighting, shape and albedo parameters. Two decoders serve as the nonlinear 3DMM to map from the shape and albedo parameters to the 3D shape and albedo, respectively. With the projection parameter, lighting, 3D shape, and albedo, a novel analytically-differentiable rendering layer is designed to reconstruct the original input face. The entire network is end-to-end trainable with only weak supervision. We demonstrate the superior representation power of our nonlinear 3DMM over its linear counterpart, and its contribution to face alignment, 3D reconstruction, and face editing.

185
Deep Depth from Defocus: how can defocus blur improve 3D estimation using dense neural networks?
2018-09-05
Depth estimation is of critical interest for scene understanding and accurate
3D reconstruction. Most recent approaches in depth estimation with deep
learning exploit geometrical structures of standard sharp images to predict
corresponding depth maps. However, cameras can also produce images with defocus
blur depending on the depth of the objects and camera settings. Hence, these
features may represent an important hint for learning to predict depth. In this
paper, we propose a full system for single-image depth prediction in the wild
using depth-from-defocus and neural networks. We carry out thorough experiments
to test deep convolutional networks on real and simulated defocused images
using a realistic model of blur variation with respect to depth. We also
investigate the influence of blur on depth prediction observing model
uncertainty with a Bayesian neural network approach. From these studies, we
show that out-of-focus blur greatly improves the depth-prediction network
performances. Furthermore, we transfer the ability learned on a synthetic,
indoor dataset to real, indoor and outdoor images. For this purpose, we present
a new dataset containing real all-focus and defocused images from a Digital
Single-Lens Reflex (DSLR) camera, paired with ground truth depth maps obtained
with an active 3D sensor for indoor scenes. The proposed approach is
successfully validated on both this new dataset and standard ones as NYUv2 or
Depth-in-the-Wild. Code and new datasets are available at
https://github.com/marcelampc/d3net_depth_estimation

186
Hubless keypoint-based 3D deformable groupwise registration
2018-09-11
We present a novel algorithm for Fast Registration Of image Groups (FROG), applied to large 3D image groups. Our approach extracts 3D SURF keypoints from images, computes matched pairs of keypoints and registers the group by minimizing pair distances in a hubless way i.e. without computing any central mean image. Using keypoints significantly reduces the problem complexity compared to voxel-based approaches, and enables us to provide an in-core global optimization, similar to the Bundle Adjustment for 3D reconstruction. As we aim to register images of different patients, the matching step yields many outliers. Then we propose a new EM-weighting algorithm which efficiently discards outliers. Global optimization is carried out with a fast gradient descent algorithm. This allows our approach to robustly register large datasets. The result is a set of diffeomorphic half transforms which link the volumes together and can be subsequently exploited for computational anatomy and landmark detection. We show experimental results on whole-body CT scans, with groups of up to 103 volumes. On a benchmark based on anatomical landmarks, our algorithm compares favorably with the star-groupwise voxel-based ANTs and NiftyReg approaches while being much faster. We also discuss the limitations of our approach for lower resolution images such as brain MRI.

187
Do-It-Yourself Single Camera 3D Pointer Input Device
2018-09-12
We present a new algorithm for single camera 3D reconstruction, or 3D input
for human-computer interfaces, based on precise tracking of an elongated
object, such as a pen, having a pattern of colored bands. To configure the
system, the user provides no more than one labelled image of a handmade
pointer, measurements of its colored bands, and the camera's pinhole projection
matrix. Other systems are of much higher cost and complexity, requiring
combinations of multiple cameras, stereocameras, and pointers with sensors and
lights. Instead of relying on information from multiple devices, we examine our
single view more closely, integrating geometric and appearance constraints to
robustly track the pointer in the presence of occlusion and distractor objects.
By probing objects of known geometry with the pointer, we demonstrate
acceptable accuracy of 3D localization.

188
Deep Textured 3D Reconstruction of Human Bodies
2018-09-18
Recovering textured 3D models of non-rigid human body shapes is challenging
due to self-occlusions caused by complex body poses and shapes, clothing
obstructions, lack of surface texture, background clutter, sparse set of
cameras with non-overlapping fields of view, etc. Further, a calibration-free
environment adds additional complexity to both - reconstruction and texture
recovery. In this paper, we propose a deep learning based solution for textured
3D reconstruction of human body shapes from a single view RGB image. This is
achieved by first recovering the volumetric grid of the non-rigid human body
given a single view RGB image followed by orthographic texture view synthesis
using the respective depth projection of the reconstructed (volumetric) shape
and input RGB image. We propose to co-learn the depth information readily
available with affordable RGBD sensors (e.g., Kinect) while showing multiple
views of the same object during the training phase. We show superior
reconstruction performance in terms of quantitative and qualitative results, on
both, publicly available datasets (by simulating the depth channel with virtual
Kinect) as well as real RGBD data collected with our calibrated multi Kinect
setup.

189
Modelling Errors in X-ray Fluoroscopic Imaging Systems Using Photogrammetric Bundle Adjustment With a Data-Driven Self-Calibration Approach
2018-09-29
X-ray imaging is a fundamental tool of routine clinical diagnosis.
Fluoroscopic imaging can further acquire X-ray images at video frame rates,
thus enabling non-invasive in-vivo motion studies of joints, gastrointestinal
tract, etc. For both the qualitative and quantitative analysis of static and
dynamic X-ray images, the data should be free of systematic biases. Besides
precise fabrication of hardware, software-based calibration solutions are
commonly used for modelling the distortions. In this primary research study, a
robust photogrammetric bundle adjustment was used to model the projective
geometry of two fluoroscopic X-ray imaging systems. However, instead of relying
on an expert photogrammetrist's knowledge and judgement to decide on a
parametric model for describing the systematic errors, a self-tuning
data-driven approach is used to model the complex non-linear distortion profile
of the sensors. Quality control from the experiment showed that 0.06 mm to 0.09
mm 3D reconstruction accuracy was achievable post-calibration using merely 15
X-ray images. As part of the bundle adjustment, the location of the virtual
fluoroscopic system relative to the target field can also be spatially resected
with an RMSE between 3.10 mm and 3.31 mm.

190
Skeleton Driven Non-rigid Motion Tracking and 3D Reconstruction
2018-10-09
This paper presents a method which can track and 3D reconstruct the non-rigid
surface motion of human performance using a moving RGB-D camera. 3D
reconstruction of marker-less human performance is a challenging problem due to
the large range of articulated motions and considerable non-rigid deformations.
Current approaches use local optimization for tracking. These methods need many
iterations to converge and may get stuck in local minima during sudden
articulated movements. We propose a puppet model-based tracking approach using
skeleton prior, which provides a better initialization for tracking articulated
movements. The proposed approach uses an aligned puppet model to estimate
correct correspondences for human performance capture. We also contribute a
synthetic dataset which provides ground truth locations for frame-by-frame
geometry and skeleton joints of human subjects. Experimental results show that
our approach is more robust when faced with sudden articulated motions, and
provides better 3D reconstruction compared to the existing state-of-the-art
approaches.

191
Equivalent Constraints for Two-View Geometry: Pose Solution/Pure Rotation Identification and 3D Reconstruction
2018-10-13
Two-view relative pose estimation and structure reconstruction is a classical
problem in computer vision. The typical methods usually employ the singular
value decomposition of the essential matrix to get multiple solutions of the
relative pose, from which the right solution is picked out by reconstructing
the three-dimension (3D) feature points and imposing the constraint of positive
depth. This paper revisits the two-view geometry problem and discovers that the
two-view imaging geometry is equivalently governed by a Pair of new Pose-Only
(PPO) constraints: the same-side constraint and the intersection constraint.
From the perspective of solving equation, the complete pose solutions of the
essential matrix are explicitly derived and we rigorously prove that the
orientation part of the pose can still be recovered in the case of pure
rotation. The PPO constraints are simplified and formulated in the form of
inequalities to directly identify the right pose solution with no need of 3D
reconstruction and the 3D reconstruction can be analytically achieved from the
identified right pose. Furthermore, the intersection inequality also enables a
robust criterion for pure rotation identification. Experiment results validate
the correctness of analyses and the robustness of the derived pose
solution/pure rotation identification and analytical 3D reconstruction.

192
Geometry-Aware Recurrent Neural Networks for Active Visual Recognition
2018-11-03
We present recurrent geometry-aware neural networks that integrate visual
information across multiple views of a scene into 3D latent feature tensors,
while maintaining an one-to-one mapping between 3D physical locations in the
world scene and latent feature locations. Object detection, object
segmentation, and 3D reconstruction is then carried out directly using the
constructed 3D feature memory, as opposed to any of the input 2D images. The
proposed models are equipped with differentiable egomotion-aware feature
warping and (learned) depth-aware unprojection operations to achieve
geometrically consistent mapping between the features in the input frame and
the constructed latent model of the scene. We empirically show the proposed
model generalizes much better than geometryunaware LSTM/GRU networks,
especially under the presence of multiple objects and cross-object occlusions.
Combined with active view selection policies, our model learns to select
informative viewpoints to integrate information from by "undoing" cross-object
occlusions, seamlessly combining geometry with learning from experience.

193
Object 3D Reconstruction based on Photometric Stereo and Inverted Rendering
2018-11-06
Methods for 3D reconstruction such as Photometric stereo recover the shape
and reflectance properties using multiple images of an object taken with
variable lighting conditions from a fixed viewpoint. Photometric stereo assumes
that a scene is illuminated only directly by the illumination source. As
result, indirect illumination effects due to inter-reflections introduce strong
biases in the recovered shape. Our suggested approach is to recover scene
properties in the presence of indirect illumination. To this end, we proposed
an iterative PS method combined with a reverted Monte-Carlo ray tracing
algorithm to overcome the inter-reflection effects aiming to separate the
direct and indirect lighting. This approach iteratively reconstructs a surface
considering both the environment around the object and its concavities. We
demonstrate and evaluate our approach using three datasets and the overall
results illustrate improvement over the classic PS approaches.

194
Deep Shape-from-Template: Wide-Baseline, Dense and Fast Registration and Deformable Reconstruction from a Single Image
2018-11-19
We present Deep Shape-from-Template (DeepSfT), a novel Deep Neural Network (DNN) method for solving real-time automatic registration and 3D reconstruction of a deformable object viewed in a single monocular image.DeepSfT advances the state-of-the-art in various aspects. Compared to existing DNN SfT methods, it is the first fully convolutional real-time approach that handles an arbitrary object geometry, topology and surface representation. It also does not require ground truth registration with real data and scales well to very complex object models with large numbers of elements. Compared to previous non-DNN SfT methods, it does not involve numerical optimization at run-time, and is a dense, wide-baseline solution that does not demand, and does not suffer from, feature-based matching. It is able to process a single image with significant deformation and viewpoint changes, and handles well the core challenges of occlusions, weak texture and blur. DeepSfT is based on residual encoder-decoder structures and refining blocks. It is trained end-to-end with a novel combination of supervised learning from simulated renderings of the object model and semi-supervised automatic fine-tuning using real data captured with a standard RGB-D camera. The cameras used for fine-tuning and run-time can be different, making DeepSfT practical for real-world use. We show that DeepSfT significantly outperforms state-of-the-art wide-baseline approaches for non-trivial templates, with quantitative and qualitative evaluation.

195
Semantic Stereo for Incidental Satellite Images
2018-11-21
The increasingly common use of incidental satellite images for stereo
reconstruction versus rigidly tasked binocular or trinocular coincident
collection is helping to enable timely global-scale 3D mapping; however,
reliable stereo correspondence from multi-date image pairs remains very
challenging due to seasonal appearance differences and scene change. Promising
recent work suggests that semantic scene segmentation can provide a robust
regularizing prior for resolving ambiguities in stereo correspondence and
reconstruction problems. To enable research for pairwise semantic stereo and
multi-view semantic 3D reconstruction with incidental satellite images, we have
established a large-scale public dataset including multi-view, multi-band
satellite images and ground truth geometric and semantic labels for two large
cities. To demonstrate the complementary nature of the stereo and segmentation
tasks, we present lightweight public baselines adapted from recent state of the
art convolutional neural network models and assess their performance.

196
Multi-View Inpainting for RGB-D Sequence
2018-11-22
In this work we propose a novel approach to remove undesired objects from
RGB-D sequences captured with freely moving cameras, which enables static 3D
reconstruction. Our method jointly uses existing information from multiple
frames as well as generates new one via inpainting techniques. We use balanced
rules to select source frames; local homography based image warping method for
alignment and Markov random field (MRF) based approach for combining existing
information. For the left holes, we employ exemplar based multi-view inpainting
method to deal with the color image and coherently use it as guidance to
complete the depth correspondence. Experiments show that our approach is
qualified for removing the undesired objects and inpainting the holes.

197
Matchable Image Retrieval by Learning from Surface Reconstruction
2018-11-26
Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have achieved superior performance on
object image retrieval, while Bag-of-Words (BoW) models with handcrafted local
features still dominate the retrieval of overlapping images in 3D
reconstruction. In this paper, we narrow down this gap by presenting an
efficient CNN-based method to retrieve images with overlaps, which we refer to
as the matchable image retrieval problem. Different from previous methods that
generates training data based on sparse reconstruction, we create a large-scale
image database with rich 3D geometrics and exploit information from surface
reconstruction to obtain fine-grained training data. We propose a batched
triplet-based loss function combined with mesh re-projection to effectively
learn the CNN representation. The proposed method significantly accelerates the
image retrieval process in 3D reconstruction and outperforms the
state-of-the-art CNN-based and BoW methods for matchable image retrieval. The
code and data are available at https://github.com/hlzz/mirror.

198
Object Tracking by Reconstruction with View-Specific Discriminative Correlation Filters
2018-11-27
Standard RGB-D trackers treat the target as an inherently 2D structure, which
makes modelling appearance changes related even to simple out-of-plane rotation
highly challenging. We address this limitation by proposing a novel long-term
RGB-D tracker - Object Tracking by Reconstruction (OTR). The tracker performs
online 3D target reconstruction to facilitate robust learning of a set of
view-specific discriminative correlation filters (DCFs). The 3D reconstruction
supports two performance-enhancing features: (i) generation of accurate spatial
support for constrained DCF learning from its 2D projection and (ii) point
cloud based estimation of 3D pose change for selection and storage of
view-specific DCFs which are used to robustly localize the target after
out-of-view rotation or heavy occlusion. Extensive evaluation of OTR on the
challenging Princeton RGB-D tracking and STC Benchmarks shows it outperforms
the state-of-the-art by a large margin.

199
Learning View Priors for Single-view 3D Reconstruction
2018-11-26
There is some ambiguity in the 3D shape of an object when the number of
observed views is small. Because of this ambiguity, although a 3D object
reconstructor can be trained using a single view or a few views per object,
reconstructed shapes only fit the observed views and appear incorrect from the
unobserved viewpoints. To reconstruct shapes that look reasonable from any
viewpoint, we propose to train a discriminator that learns prior knowledge
regarding possible views. The discriminator is trained to distinguish the
reconstructed views of the observed viewpoints from those of the unobserved
viewpoints. The reconstructor is trained to correct unobserved views by fooling
the discriminator. Our method outperforms current state-of-the-art methods on
both synthetic and natural image datasets; this validates the effectiveness of
our method.

200
Multiview Supervision By Registration
2018-11-27
This paper presents a semi-supervised learning framework to train a keypoint
detector using multiview image streams given the limited labeled data
(typically $<$4\%). We leverage the complementary relationship between
multiview geometry and visual tracking to provide three types of supervisionary
signals to utilize the unlabeled data: (1) keypoint detection in one view can
be supervised by other views via the epipolar geometry; (2) a keypoint moves
smoothly over time where its optical flow can be used to temporally supervise
consecutive image frames to each other; (3) visible keypoint in one view is
likely to be visible in the adjacent view. We integrate these three signals in
a differentiable fashion to design a new end-to-end neural network composed of
three pathways. This design allows us to extensively use the unlabeled data to
train the keypoint detector. We show that our approach outperforms existing
detectors including DeepLabCut tailored to the keypoint detection of non-human
species such as monkeys, dogs, and mice.

201
Scan2CAD: Learning CAD Model Alignment in RGB-D Scans
2018-11-27
We present Scan2CAD, a novel data-driven method that learns to align clean 3D
CAD models from a shape database to the noisy and incomplete geometry of a
commodity RGB-D scan. For a 3D reconstruction of an indoor scene, our method
takes as input a set of CAD models, and predicts a 9DoF pose that aligns each
model to the underlying scan geometry. To tackle this problem, we create a new
scan-to-CAD alignment dataset based on 1506 ScanNet scans with 97607 annotated
keypoint pairs between 14225 CAD models from ShapeNet and their counterpart
objects in the scans. Our method selects a set of representative keypoints in a
3D scan for which we find correspondences to the CAD geometry. To this end, we
design a novel 3D CNN architecture that learns a joint embedding between real
and synthetic objects, and from this predicts a correspondence heatmap. Based
on these correspondence heatmaps, we formulate a variational energy
minimization that aligns a given set of CAD models to the reconstruction. We
evaluate our approach on our newly introduced Scan2CAD benchmark where we
outperform both handcrafted feature descriptor as well as state-of-the-art CNN
based methods by 21.39%.

202
EV-SegNet: Semantic Segmentation for Event-based Cameras
2018-11-29
Event cameras, or Dynamic Vision Sensor (DVS), are very promising sensors
which have shown several advantages over frame based cameras. However, most
recent work on real applications of these cameras is focused on 3D
reconstruction and 6-DOF camera tracking. Deep learning based approaches, which
are leading the state-of-the-art in visual recognition tasks, could potentially
take advantage of the benefits of DVS, but some adaptations are needed still
needed in order to effectively work on these cameras. This work introduces a
first baseline for semantic segmentation with this kind of data. We build a
semantic segmentation CNN based on state-of-the-art techniques which takes
event information as the only input. Besides, we propose a novel representation
for DVS data that outperforms previously used event representations for related
tasks. Since there is no existing labeled dataset for this task, we propose how
to automatically generate approximated semantic segmentation labels for some
sequences of the DDD17 dataset, which we publish together with the model, and
demonstrate they are valid to train a model for DVS data only. We compare our
results on semantic segmentation from DVS data with results using corresponding
grayscale images, demonstrating how they are complementary and worth combining.

203
3D Shape Reconstruction from a Single 2D Image via 2D-3D Self-Consistency
2018-11-29
Aiming at inferring 3D shapes from 2D images, 3D shape reconstruction has
drawn huge attention from researchers in computer vision and deep learning
communities. However, it is not practical to assume that 2D input images and
their associated ground truth 3D shapes are always available during training.
In this paper, we propose a framework for semi-supervised 3D reconstruction.
This is realized by our introduced 2D-3D self-consistency, which aligns the
predicted 3D models and the projected 2D foreground segmentation masks.
Moreover, our model not only enables recovering 3D shapes with the
corresponding 2D masks, camera pose information can be jointly disentangled and
predicted, even such supervision is never available during training. In the
experiments, we qualitatively and quantitatively demonstrate the effectiveness
of our model, which performs favorably against state-of-the-art approaches in
either supervised or semi-supervised settings.

204
Traffic Danger Recognition With Surveillance Cameras Without Training Data
2018-11-29
We propose a traffic danger recognition model that works with arbitrary
traffic surveillance cameras to identify and predict car crashes. There are too
many cameras to monitor manually. Therefore, we developed a model to predict
and identify car crashes from surveillance cameras based on a 3D reconstruction
of the road plane and prediction of trajectories. For normal traffic, it
supports real-time proactive safety checks of speeds and distances between
vehicles to provide insights about possible high-risk areas. We achieve good
prediction and recognition of car crashes without using any labeled training
data of crashes. Experiments on the BrnoCompSpeed dataset show that our model
can accurately monitor the road, with mean errors of 1.80% for distance
measurement, 2.77 km/h for speed measurement, 0.24 m for car position
prediction, and 2.53 km/h for speed prediction.

205
Single-view Object Shape Reconstruction Using Deep Shape Prior and Silhouette
2018-11-29
3D shape reconstruction from a single image is a highly ill-posed problem. Modern deep learning based systems try to solve this problem by learning an end-to-end mapping from image to shape via a deep network. In this paper, we aim to solve this problem via an online optimization framework inspired by traditional methods. Our framework employs a deep autoencoder to learn a set of latent codes of 3D object shapes, which are fitted by a probabilistic shape prior using Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM). At inference, the shape and pose are jointly optimized guided by both image cues and deep shape prior without relying on an initialization from any trained deep nets. Surprisingly, our method achieves comparable performance to state-of-the-art methods even without training an end-to-end network, which shows a promising step in this direction.

206
DeepVoxels: Learning Persistent 3D Feature Embeddings
2018-12-03
In this work, we address the lack of 3D understanding of generative neural
networks by introducing a persistent 3D feature embedding for view synthesis.
To this end, we propose DeepVoxels, a learned representation that encodes the
view-dependent appearance of a 3D scene without having to explicitly model its
geometry. At its core, our approach is based on a Cartesian 3D grid of
persistent embedded features that learn to make use of the underlying 3D scene
structure. Our approach combines insights from 3D geometric computer vision
with recent advances in learning image-to-image mappings based on adversarial
loss functions. DeepVoxels is supervised, without requiring a 3D reconstruction
of the scene, using a 2D re-rendering loss and enforces perspective and
multi-view geometry in a principled manner. We apply our persistent 3D scene
representation to the problem of novel view synthesis demonstrating
high-quality results for a variety of challenging scenes.

207
Domain-Adaptive Single-View 3D Reconstruction
2018-12-04
Single-view 3D shape reconstruction is an important but challenging problem, mainly for two reasons. First, as shape annotation is very expensive to acquire, current methods rely on synthetic data, in which ground-truth 3D annotation is easy to obtain. However, this results in domain adaptation problem when applied to natural images. The second challenge is that there are multiple shapes that can explain a given 2D image. In this paper, we propose a framework to improve over these challenges using adversarial training. On one hand, we impose domain confusion between natural and synthetic image representations to reduce the distribution gap. On the other hand, we impose the reconstruction to be `realistic' by forcing it to lie on a (learned) manifold of realistic object shapes. Our experiments show that these constraints improve performance by a large margin over baseline reconstruction models. We achieve results competitive with the state of the art with a much simpler architecture.

208
Multiview Cross-supervision for Semantic Segmentation
2018-12-04
This paper presents a semi-supervised learning framework for a customized
semantic segmentation task using multiview image streams. A key challenge of
the customized task lies in the limited accessibility of the labeled data due
to the requirement of prohibitive manual annotation effort. We hypothesize that
it is possible to leverage multiview image streams that are linked through the
underlying 3D geometry, which can provide an additional supervisionary signal
to train a segmentation model. We formulate a new cross-supervision method
using a shape belief transfer---the segmentation belief in one image is used to
predict that of the other image through epipolar geometry analogous to
shape-from-silhouette. The shape belief transfer provides the upper and lower
bounds of the segmentation for the unlabeled data where its gap approaches
asymptotically to zero as the number of the labeled views increases. We
integrate this theory to design a novel network that is agnostic to camera
calibration, network model, and semantic category and bypasses the intermediate
process of suboptimal 3D reconstruction. We validate this network by
recognizing a customized semantic category per pixel from realworld visual data
including non-human species and a subject of interest in social videos where
attaining large-scale annotation data is infeasible.

209
Learning to Infer the Depth Map of a Hand from its Color Image
2018-12-06
We propose the first approach to the problem of inferring the depth map of a
human hand based on a single RGB image. We achieve this with a Convolutional
Neural Network (CNN) that employs a stacked hourglass model as its main
building block. Intermediate supervision is used in several outputs of the
proposed architecture in a staged approach. To aid the process of training and
inference, hand segmentation masks are also estimated in such an intermediate
supervision step, and used to guide the subsequent depth estimation process. In
order to train and evaluate the proposed method we compile and make publicly
available HandRGBD, a new dataset of 20,601 views of hands, each consisting of
an RGB image and an aligned depth map. Based on HandRGBD, we explore variants
of the proposed approach in an ablative study and determine the best performing
one. The results of an extensive experimental evaluation demonstrate that hand
depth estimation from a single RGB frame can be achieved with an accuracy of
22mm, which is comparable to the accuracy achieved by contemporary low-cost
depth cameras. Such a 3D reconstruction of hands based on RGB information is
valuable as a final result on its own right, but also as an input to several
other hand analysis and perception algorithms that require depth input.
Essentially, in such a context, the proposed approach bridges the gap between
RGB and RGBD, by making all existing RGBD-based methods applicable to RGB
input.

210
Real-time Indoor Scene Reconstruction with RGBD and Inertia Input
2018-12-07
Camera motion estimation is a key technique for 3D scene reconstruction and
Simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). To make it be feasibly achieved,
previous works usually assume slow camera motions, which limits its usage in
many real cases. We propose an end-to-end 3D reconstruction system which
combines color, depth and inertial measurements to achieve robust
reconstruction with fast sensor motions. Our framework extends Kalman filter to
fuse the three kinds of information and involve an iterative method to jointly
optimize feature correspondences, camera poses and scene geometry. We also
propose a novel geometry-aware patch deformation technique to adapt the feature
appearance in image domain, leading to a more accurate feature matching under
fast camera motions. Experiments show that our patch deformation method
improves the accuracy of feature tracking, and our 3D reconstruction
outperforms the state-of-the-art solutions under fast camera motions.

211
SeFM: A Sequential Feature Point Matching Algorithm for Object 3D Reconstruction
2018-12-07
3D reconstruction is a fundamental issue in many applications and the feature point matching problem is a key step while reconstructing target objects. Conventional algorithms can only find a small number of feature points from two images which is quite insufficient for reconstruction. To overcome this problem, we propose SeFM a sequential feature point matching algorithm. We first utilize the epipolar geometry to find the epipole of each image. Rotating along the epipole, we generate a set of the epipolar lines and reserve those intersecting with the input image. Next, a rough matching phase, followed by a dense matching phase, is applied to find the matching dot-pairs using dynamic programming. Furthermore, we also remove wrong matching dot-pairs by calculating the validity. Experimental results illustrate that SeFM can achieve around 1,000 to 10,000 times matching dot-pairs, depending on individual image, compared to conventional algorithms and the object reconstruction with only two images is semantically visible. Moreover, it outperforms conventional algorithms, such as SIFT and SURF, regarding precision and recall.

212
Learning Implicit Fields for Generative Shape Modeling
2018-12-06
We advocate the use of implicit fields for learning generative models of shapes and introduce an implicit field decoder, called IM-NET, for shape generation, aimed at improving the visual quality of the generated shapes. An implicit field assigns a value to each point in 3D space, so that a shape can be extracted as an iso-surface. IM-NET is trained to perform this assignment by means of a binary classifier. Specifically, it takes a point coordinate, along with a feature vector encoding a shape, and outputs a value which indicates whether the point is outside the shape or not. By replacing conventional decoders by our implicit decoder for representation learning (via IM-AE) and shape generation (via IM-GAN), we demonstrate superior results for tasks such as generative shape modeling, interpolation, and single-view 3D reconstruction, particularly in terms of visual quality. Code and supplementary material are available at https://github.com/czq142857/implicit-decoder.

213
Occupancy Networks: Learning 3D Reconstruction in Function Space
2018-12-10
With the advent of deep neural networks, learning-based approaches for 3D
reconstruction have gained popularity. However, unlike for images, in 3D there
is no canonical representation which is both computationally and memory
efficient yet allows for representing high-resolution geometry of arbitrary
topology. Many of the state-of-the-art learning-based 3D reconstruction
approaches can hence only represent very coarse 3D geometry or are limited to a
restricted domain. In this paper, we propose Occupancy Networks, a new
representation for learning-based 3D reconstruction methods. Occupancy networks
implicitly represent the 3D surface as the continuous decision boundary of a
deep neural network classifier. In contrast to existing approaches, our
representation encodes a description of the 3D output at infinite resolution
without excessive memory footprint. We validate that our representation can
efficiently encode 3D structure and can be inferred from various kinds of
input. Our experiments demonstrate competitive results, both qualitatively and
quantitatively, for the challenging tasks of 3D reconstruction from single
images, noisy point clouds and coarse discrete voxel grids. We believe that
occupancy networks will become a useful tool in a wide variety of
learning-based 3D tasks.

214
PlaneRCNN: 3D Plane Detection and Reconstruction from a Single Image
2018-12-10
This paper proposes a deep neural architecture, PlaneRCNN, that detects and
reconstructs piecewise planar surfaces from a single RGB image. PlaneRCNN
employs a variant of Mask R-CNN to detect planes with their plane parameters
and segmentation masks. PlaneRCNN then jointly refines all the segmentation
masks with a novel loss enforcing the consistency with a nearby view during
training. The paper also presents a new benchmark with more fine-grained plane
segmentations in the ground-truth, in which, PlaneRCNN outperforms existing
state-of-the-art methods with significant margins in the plane detection,
segmentation, and reconstruction metrics. PlaneRCNN makes an important step
towards robust plane extraction, which would have an immediate impact on a wide
range of applications including Robotics, Augmented Reality, and Virtual
Reality.

215
A Self-Supervised Bootstrap Method for Single-Image 3D Face Reconstruction
2018-12-14
State-of-the-art methods for 3D reconstruction of faces from a single image
require 2D-3D pairs of ground-truth data for supervision. Such data is costly
to acquire, and most datasets available in the literature are restricted to
pairs for which the input 2D images depict faces in a near fronto-parallel
pose. Therefore, many data-driven methods for single-image 3D facial
reconstruction perform poorly on profile and near-profile faces. We propose a
method to improve the performance of single-image 3D facial reconstruction
networks by utilizing the network to synthesize its own training data for
fine-tuning, comprising: (i) single-image 3D reconstruction of faces in
near-frontal images without ground-truth 3D shape; (ii) application of a
rigid-body transformation to the reconstructed face model; (iii) rendering of
the face model from new viewpoints; and (iv) use of the rendered image and
corresponding 3D reconstruction as additional data for supervised fine-tuning.
The new 2D-3D pairs thus produced have the same high-quality observed for near
fronto-parallel reconstructions, thereby nudging the network towards more
uniform performance as a function of the viewing angle of input faces.
Application of the proposed technique to the fine-tuning of a state-of-the-art
single-image 3D-reconstruction network for faces demonstrates the usefulness of
the method, with particularly significant gains for profile or near-profile
views.

216
3D-SIS: 3D Semantic Instance Segmentation of RGB-D Scans
2018-12-17
We introduce 3D-SIS, a novel neural network architecture for 3D semantic
instance segmentation in commodity RGB-D scans. The core idea of our method is
to jointly learn from both geometric and color signal, thus enabling accurate
instance predictions. Rather than operate solely on 2D frames, we observe that
most computer vision applications have multi-view RGB-D input available, which
we leverage to construct an approach for 3D instance segmentation that
effectively fuses together these multi-modal inputs. Our network leverages
high-resolution RGB input by associating 2D images with the volumetric grid
based on the pose alignment of the 3D reconstruction. For each image, we first
extract 2D features for each pixel with a series of 2D convolutions; we then
backproject the resulting feature vector to the associated voxel in the 3D
grid. This combination of 2D and 3D feature learning allows significantly
higher accuracy object detection and instance segmentation than
state-of-the-art alternatives. We show results on both synthetic and real-world
public benchmarks, achieving an improvement in mAP of over 13 on real-world
data.

217
FML: Face Model Learning from Videos
2018-12-18
Monocular image-based 3D reconstruction of faces is a long-standing problem
in computer vision. Since image data is a 2D projection of a 3D face, the
resulting depth ambiguity makes the problem ill-posed. Most existing methods
rely on data-driven priors that are built from limited 3D face scans. In
contrast, we propose multi-frame video-based self-supervised training of a deep
network that (i) learns a face identity model both in shape and appearance
while (ii) jointly learning to reconstruct 3D faces. Our face model is learned
using only corpora of in-the-wild video clips collected from the Internet. This
virtually endless source of training data enables learning of a highly general
3D face model. In order to achieve this, we propose a novel multi-frame
consistency loss that ensures consistent shape and appearance across multiple
frames of a subject's face, thus minimizing depth ambiguity. At test time we
can use an arbitrary number of frames, so that we can perform both monocular as
well as multi-frame reconstruction.

218
Grouping-Based Low-Rank Trajectory Completion and 3D Reconstruction
2014-12-01
Extracting 3D shape of deforming objects in monocular videos, a task known as non-rigid structure-from-motion (NRSfM), has so far been studied only on synthetic datasets and controlled environments. Typically, the objects to reconstruct are pre-segmented, they exhibit limited rotations and occlusions, or full-length trajectories are assumed. In order to integrate NRSfM into current video analysis pipelines, one needs to consider as input realistic -thus incomplete- tracking, and perform spatio-temporal grouping to segment the objects from their surroundings. Furthermore, NRSfM needs to be robust to noise in both segmentation and tracking, e.g., drifting, segmentation ``leaking'', optical flow ``bleeding'' etc. In this paper, we make a first attempt towards this goal, and propose a method that combines dense optical flow tracking, motion trajectory clustering and NRSfM for 3D reconstruction of objects in videos. For each trajectory cluster, we compute multiple reconstructions by minimizing the reprojection error and the rank of the 3D shape under different rank bounds of the trajectory matrix. We show that dense 3D shape is extracted and trajectories are completed across occlusions and low textured regions, even under mild relative motion between the object and the camera. We achieve competitive results on a public NRSfM benchmark while using fixed parameters across all sequences and handling incomplete trajectories, in contrast to existing approaches. We further test our approach on popular video segmentation datasets. To the best of our knowledge, our method is the first to extract dense object models from realistic videos, such as those found in Youtube or Hollywood movies, without object-specific priors.

219
Efficient Inference of Continuous Markov Random Fields with Polynomial Potentials
2014-12-01
In this paper, we prove that every multivariate polynomial with even degree can be decomposed into a sum of convex and concave polynomials. Motivated by this property, we exploit the concave-convex procedure to perform inference on continuous Markov random fields with polynomial potentials. In particular, we show that the concave-convex decomposition of polynomials can be expressed as a sum-of-squares optimization, which can be efficiently solved via semidefinite programming. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in the context of 3D reconstruction, shape from shading and image denoising, and show that our approach significantly outperforms existing approaches in terms of efficiency as well as the quality of the retrieved solution.

220
Cascaded Classification Models: Combining Models for Holistic Scene Understanding
2008-12-01
One of the original goals of computer vision was to fully understand a natural scene. This requires solving several problems simultaneously, including object detection, labeling of meaningful regions, and 3d reconstruction. While great progress has been made in tackling each of these problems in isolation, only recently have researchers again been considering the difficult task of assembling various methods to the mutual benefit of all. We consider learning a set of such classification models in such a way that they both solve their own problem and help each other. We develop a framework known as Cascaded Classification Models (CCM), where repeated instantiations of these classifiers are coupled by their input/output variables in a cascade that improves performance at each level. Our method requires only a limited black box interface with the models, allowing us to use very sophisticated, state-of-the-art classifiers without having to look under the hood. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on a large set of natural images by combining the subtasks of scene categorization, object detection, multiclass image segmentation, and 3d scene reconstruction.

221
Dense Variational Reconstruction of Non-rigid Surfaces from Monocular Video
2013-06-01
This paper offers the first variational approach to the problem of dense 3D reconstruction of non-rigid surfaces from a monocular video sequence. We formulate nonrigid structure from motion ( NRS f M ) as a global variational energy minimization problem to estimate dense low-rank smooth 3D shapes for every frame along with the camera motion matrices, given dense 2D correspondences. Unlike traditional factorization based approaches to NRS f M , which model the low-rank non-rigid shape using a fixed number of basis shapes and corresponding coefficients, we minimize the rank of the matrix of time-varying shapes directly via trace norm minimization. In conjunction with this low-rank constraint, we use an edge preserving total-variation regularization term to obtain spatially smooth shapes for every frame. Thanks to proximal splitting techniques the optimization problem can be decomposed into many point-wise sub-problems and simple linear systems which can be easily solved on GPU hardware. We show results on real sequences of different objects (face, torso, beating heart) where, despite challenges in tracking, illumination changes and occlusions, our method reconstructs highly deforming smooth surfaces densely and accurately directly from video, without the need for any prior models or shape templates.

222
Fast and Accurate Image Matching with Cascade Hashing for 3D Reconstruction
2014-06-01
Image matching is one of the most challenging stages in 3D reconstruction, which usually occupies half of computational cost and inaccurate matching may lead to failure of reconstruction. Therefore, fast and accurate image matching is very crucial for 3D reconstruction. In this paper, we proposed a Cascade Hashing strategy to speed up the image matching. In order to accelerate the image matching, the proposed Cascade Hashing method is designed to be three-layer structure: hashing lookup, hashing remapping, and hashing ranking. Each layer adopts different measures and filtering strategies, which is demonstrated to be less sensitive to noise. Extensive experiments show that image matching can be accelerated by our approach in hundreds times than brute force matching, even achieves ten times or more than Kd-tree based matching while retaining comparable accuracy.

223
Critical Configurations For Radial Distortion Self-Calibration
2014-06-01
In this paper, we study the configurations of motion and structure that lead to inherent ambiguities in radial distortion estimation  (or 3D reconstruction with unknown radial distortions). By analyzing the motion field of radially distorted images, we solve for critical surface pairs that can lead to the same motion field under different radial distortions and possibly different camera motions. We study the properties of the discovered critical configurations and discuss the practically important configurations that often occur in real applications. We demonstrate the impact of the radial distortion ambiguity on multi-view reconstruction with synthetic experiments and real experiments.

224
Face Normals "In-The-Wild" Using Fully Convolutional Networks
2017-07-01
In this work we pursue a data-driven approach to the problem of estimating surface normals from a single intensity image, focusing in particular on human faces. We introduce new methods to exploit the currently available facial databases for dataset construction and tailor a deep convolutional neural network to the task of estimating facial surface normals `in-the-wild'. We train a fully convolutional network that can accurately recover facial normals from images including a challenging variety of expressions and facial poses. We compare against state-of-the-art face Shape-from-Shading and 3D reconstruction techniques and show that the proposed network can recover substantially more accurate and realistic normals. Furthermore, in contrast to other existing face-specific surface recovery methods, we do not require the solving of an explicit alignment step due to the fully convolutional nature of our network.

225
CarFusion: Combining Point Tracking and Part Detection for Dynamic 3D Reconstruction of Vehicles
2018-06-01
Despite significant research in the area, reconstruction of multiple dynamic rigid objects (eg. vehicles) observed from   wide-baseline, uncalibrated and unsynchronized cameras, remains hard. On one hand, feature tracking works well within each view but is hard to correspond across multiple cameras with limited overlap in fields of view or due to occlusions. On the other hand, advances in deep learning have resulted in strong detectors that work across different viewpoints but are still not precise enough for triangulation-based reconstruction. In this work, we develop a framework to fuse both the single-view feature tracks and multi-view detected part locations to significantly improve the detection, localization and reconstruction of moving vehicles, even in the presence of strong occlusions. We demonstrate our framework at a busy traffic intersection by reconstructing over 62 vehicles passing within a 3-minute window. We evaluate the different components within our framework and compare to alternate  approaches such as reconstruction using tracking-by-detection.

226
Augmenting Crowd-Sourced 3D Reconstructions Using Semantic Detections
2018-06-01
Image-based 3D reconstruction for Internet photo collections has become a robust technology to produce impressive virtual representations of real-world scenes. However, several fundamental challenges remain for Structure-from-Motion (SfM) pipelines, namely: the placement and reconstruction of transient objects only observed in single views, estimating the absolute scale of the scene, and (suprisingly often) recovering ground surfaces in the scene. We propose a method to jointly address these remaining open problems of SfM. In particular, we focus on detecting people in individual images and accurately placing them into an existing 3D model. As part of this placement, our method also estimates the absolute scale of the scene from object semantics, which in this case constitutes the height distribution of the population. Further, we obtain a smooth approximation of the ground surface and recover the gravity vector of the scene directly from the individual person detections. We demonstrate the results of our approach on a number of unordered Internet photo collections, and we quantitatively evaluate the obtained absolute scene scales.

227
Image Collection Pop-Up: 3D Reconstruction and Clustering of Rigid and Non-Rigid Categories
2018-06-01
This paper introduces an approach to simultaneously estimate 3D shape, camera pose, and object and type of deformation clustering, from partial 2D annotations in a multi-instance collection of images. Furthermore, we can indistinctly process rigid and non-rigid categories. This advances existing work, which only addresses the problem for one single object or, if multiple objects are considered, they are assumed to be clustered a priori. To handle this broader version of the problem, we model object deformation using a formulation based on multiple unions of subspaces, able to span from small rigid motion to complex deformations. The parameters of this model are learned via Augmented Lagrange Multipliers, in a completely unsupervised manner that does not require any training data at all. Extensive validation is provided in a wide variety of synthetic and real scenarios, including rigid and non-rigid categories with small and large deformations. In all cases our approach outperforms state-of-the-art in terms of 3D reconstruction accuracy, while also providing clustering results that allow segmenting the images into object instances and their associated type of deformation (or action the object is performing).

228
SobolevFusion: 3D Reconstruction of Scenes Undergoing Free Non-Rigid Motion
2018-06-01
We present a system that builds 3D models of non-rigidly moving surfaces from scratch in real time using a single RGB-D stream. Our solution is based on the variational level set method, thus it copes with arbitrary geometry, including topological changes. It warps a given truncated signed distance field (TSDF) to a target TSDF via gradient flow. Unlike previous approaches that define the gradient using an L2 inner product, our method relies on gradient flow in Sobolev space. Its favourable regularity properties allow for a more straightforward energy formulation that is faster to compute and that achieves higher geometric detail, mitigating the over-smoothing effects introduced by other regularization schemes. In addition, the coarse-to-fine evolution behaviour of the flow is able to handle larger motions, making few frames sufficient for a high-fidelity reconstruction. Last but not least, our pipeline determines voxel correspondences between partial shapes by matching signatures in a low-dimensional embedding of their Laplacian eigenfunctions, and is thus able to reliably colour the output model. A variety of quantitative and qualitative evaluations demonstrate the advantages of our technique.

229
Texture Mapping for 3D Reconstruction With RGB-D Sensor
2018-06-01
Acquiring realistic texture details for 3D models is important in 3D reconstruction. However, the existence of geometric errors, caused by noisy RGB-D sensor data, always makes the color images cannot be accurately aligned onto reconstructed 3D models. In this paper, we propose a global-to-local correction strategy to obtain more desired texture mapping results. Our algorithm first adaptively selects an optimal image for each face of the 3D model, which can effectively remove blurring and ghost artifacts produced by multiple image blending. We then adopt a non-rigid global-to-local correction step to reduce the seaming effect between textures. This can effectively compensate for the texture and the geometric misalignment caused by camera pose drift and geometric errors. We evaluate the proposed algorithm in a range of complex scenes and demonstrate its effective performance in generating seamless high fidelity textures for 3D models.

230
Trapping Light for Time of Flight
2018-06-01
We propose a novel imaging method for near-complete, surround, 3D reconstruction of geometrically complex objects, in a single shot. The key idea is to augment a time-of-flight (ToF) based 3D sensor with a multi-mirror system, called a light-trap. The shape of the trap is chosen so that light rays entering it bounce multiple times inside the trap, thereby visiting every position inside the trap multiple times from various directions. We show via simulations that this enables light rays to reach more than 99.9% of the surface of objects placed inside the trap, even those with strong occlusions, for example, lattice-shaped objects. The ToF sensor provides the path length for each light ray, which, along with the known shape of the trap, is used to reconstruct the complete paths of all the rays. This enables performing dense, surround 3D reconstructions of objects with highly complex 3D shapes, in a single shot. We have developed a proof-of-concept hardware prototype consisting of a pulsed ToF sensor, and a light trap built with planar mirrors. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the light trap based 3D reconstruction method on a variety of objects with a broad range of geometry and reflectance properties.

231
Robust Hough Transform Based 3D Reconstruction From Circular Light Fields
2018-06-01
Light-field imaging is based on images taken on a regular grid. Thus, high-quality 3D reconstructions are obtainable by analyzing orientations in epipolar plane images (EPIs). Unfortunately, such data only allows to evaluate one side of the object. Moreover, a constant intensity along each orientation is mandatory for most of the approaches. This paper presents a novel method which allows to reconstruct depth information from data acquired with a circular camera motion, termed circular light fields. With this approach it is possible to determine the full 360 degree view of target objects. Additionally, circular light fields allow retrieving depth from datasets acquired with telecentric lenses, which is not possible with linear light fields. The proposed method finds trajectories of 3D points in the EPIs by means of a modified Hough transform. For this purpose, binary EPI-edge images are used, which not only allow to obtain reliable depth information, but also overcome the limitation of constant intensity along trajectories. Experimental results on synthetic and real datasets demonstrate the quality of the proposed algorithm.

232
Learning Single-View 3D Reconstruction with Limited Pose Supervision
2018-09-01
It is expensive to label images with 3D structure or precise camera pose. Yet, this is precisely the kind of annotation required to train single-view 3D reconstruction models. In contrast, unlabeled images or images with just category labels are easy to acquire, but few current models can use this weak supervision. We present a unified framework that can combine both types of supervision: a small amount of camera pose annotations are used to enforce pose-invariance and view-point consistency, and unlabeled images combined with an adversarial loss are used to enforce the realism of rendered, generated models. We use this unified framework to measure the impact of each form of supervision in three paradigms: semi-supervised, multi-task, and transfer learning. We show that with a combination of these ideas, we can train single-view reconstruction models that improve up to 7 points in performance (AP) when using only 1% pose annotated training data.

233
Neural Procedural Reconstruction for Residential Buildings
2018-09-01
This paper proposes a novel 3D reconstruction approach, dubbed Neural Procedural Reconstruction (NPR), which trains deep neural networks to procedurally apply shape grammar rules and reconstruct CAD-quality models from 3D points. In contrast to Procedural Modeling (PM), which randomly applies shape grammar rules to synthesize 3D models, NPR classifies a rule branch to explore and regresses geometric parameters at each rule application. We demonstrate the proposed system for residential buildings with aerial LiDAR as the input. Our 3D models boast extremely compact geometry and semantically segmented architectural components. Qualitative and quantitative evaluations on hundreds of houses show that our approach robustly generates CAD-quality 3D models from raw sensor data, making significant improvements over the existing state-of-the-art.

234
Simultaneous 3D Reconstruction for Water Surface and Underwater Scene
2018-09-01
This paper presents the first approach for simultaneously recovering the 3D shape of both the wavy water surface and the moving underwater scene. A portable camera array system is constructed, which captures the scene from multiple viewpoints above the water. The correspondences across these cameras are estimated using an optical flow method and are used to infer the shape of the water surface and the underwater scene. We assume that there is only one refraction occurring at the water interface. Under this assumption, two estimates of the water surface normals should agree: one from Snell's law of light refraction and another from local surface structure. The experimental results using both synthetic and real data demonstrate the effectiveness of the presented approach.

235
Learning Priors for Semantic 3D Reconstruction
2018-09-01
We present a novel semantic 3D reconstruction framework which embeds variational regularization into a neural network. Our network performs a fixed number of unrolled multi-scale optimization iterations with shared interaction weights. In contrast to existing variational methods for semantic 3D reconstruction, our model is end-to-end trainable and captures more complex dependencies between the semantic labels and the 3D geometry. Compared to previous learning-based approaches to 3D reconstruction, we integrate powerful long-range dependencies using variational coarse-to-fine optimization. As a result, our network architecture requires only a moderate number of parameters while keeping a high level of expressiveness which enables learning from very little data. Experiments on real and synthetic datasets demonstrate that our network achieves higher accuracy compared to a purely variational approach while at the same time requiring two orders of magnitude less iterations to converge. Moreover, our approach handles ten times more semantic class labels using the same computational resources.

236
Semantically Aware Urban 3D Reconstruction with Plane-Based Regularization
2018-09-01
We propose a method for urban 3D reconstruction, which incorporates semantic information and plane priors within the reconstruction process in order to generate visually appealing 3D models. We introduce a plane detection algorithm using 3D lines, which detects a more complete and less spurious plane set compared to point-based methods in urban environments. Further, the proposed normalized visibility-based energy formulation eases the combination of several energy terms within a tetrahedra occupancy labeling algorithm and, hence, is well suited for combining it with class specific smoothness terms.  As a result, we produce visually appealing and detailed building models (i.e., straight edges and planar surfaces) and a smooth reconstruction of the surroundings.

237
Reconstruction-based Pairwise Depth Dataset for Depth Image Enhancement Using CNN
2018-09-01
Raw depth images captured by consumer depth cameras suffer from noisy and missing values. Despite the success of CNN-based image processing on color image restoration, similar approaches for depth enhancement have not been much addressed yet because of the lack of raw-clean pairwise dataset. In this paper, we propose a pairwise depth image dataset generation method using dense 3D surface reconstruction with a filtering method to remove low quality pairs. We also present a multi-scale Laplacian pyramid based neural network and structure preserving loss functions to progressively reduce the noise and holes from coarse to fine scales. Experimental results show that our network trained with our pairwise dataset can enhance the input depth images to become comparable with 3D reconstructions obtained from depth streams, and can accelerate the convergence of dense 3D reconstruction results.

238
Practical Projective Structure From Motion (P2SfM)
2017-10-01
This paper presents a solution to the Projective Structure from Motion (PSfM) problem able to deal efficiently with missing data, outliers and, for the first time, large scale 3D reconstruction scenarios. By embedding the projective depths into the projective parameters of the points and views, we decrease the number of unknowns to estimate and improve computational speed by optimizing standard linear Least Squares systems instead of homogeneous ones. In order to do so, we show that an extension of the linear constraints from the Generalized Projective Reconstruction Theorem can be transferred to the projective parameters, ensuring also a valid projective reconstruction in the process. We use an incremental approach that, starting from a solvable sub-problem, incrementally adds views and points until completion with a robust, outliers free, procedure. Experiments with simulated data shows that our approach is performing well, both in term of the quality of the reconstruction and the capacity to handle missing data and outliers with a reduced computational time. Finally, results on real datasets shows the ability of the method to be used in medium and large scale 3D reconstruction scenarios with high ratios of missing data (up to 98%).

239
Learning to Reconstruct Shapes from Unseen Classes
2018-12-28
From a single image, humans are able to perceive the full 3D shape of an
object by exploiting learned shape priors from everyday life. Contemporary
single-image 3D reconstruction algorithms aim to solve this task in a similar
fashion, but often end up with priors that are highly biased by training
classes. Here we present an algorithm, Generalizable Reconstruction (GenRe),
designed to capture more generic, class-agnostic shape priors. We achieve this
with an inference network and training procedure that combine 2.5D
representations of visible surfaces (depth and silhouette), spherical shape
representations of both visible and non-visible surfaces, and 3D voxel-based
representations, in a principled manner that exploits the causal structure of
how 3D shapes give rise to 2D images. Experiments demonstrate that GenRe
performs well on single-view shape reconstruction, and generalizes to diverse
novel objects from categories not seen during training.

240
Rendu bas image avec contraintes sur les gradients
2018-12-29
Multi-view image-based rendering consists in generating a novel view of a
scene from a set of source views. In general, this works by first doing a
coarse 3D reconstruction of the scene, and then using this reconstruction to
establish correspondences between source and target views, followed by blending
the warped views to get the final image. Unfortunately, discontinuities in the
blending weights, due to scene geometry or camera placement, result in
artifacts in the target view. In this paper, we show how to avoid these
artifacts by imposing additional constraints on the image gradients of the
novel view. We propose a variational framework in which an energy functional is
derived and optimized by iteratively solving a linear system. We demonstrate
this method on several structured and unstructured multi-view datasets, and
show that it numerically outperforms state-of-the-art methods, and eliminates
artifacts that result from visibility discontinuities

241
RayNet: Learning Volumetric 3D Reconstruction with Ray Potentials
2019-01-06
In this paper, we consider the problem of reconstructing a dense 3D model
using images captured from different views. Recent methods based on
convolutional neural networks (CNN) allow learning the entire task from data.
However, they do not incorporate the physics of image formation such as
perspective geometry and occlusion. Instead, classical approaches based on
Markov Random Fields (MRF) with ray-potentials explicitly model these physical
processes, but they cannot cope with large surface appearance variations across
different viewpoints. In this paper, we propose RayNet, which combines the
strengths of both frameworks. RayNet integrates a CNN that learns
view-invariant feature representations with an MRF that explicitly encodes the
physics of perspective projection and occlusion. We train RayNet end-to-end
using empirical risk minimization. We thoroughly evaluate our approach on
challenging real-world datasets and demonstrate its benefits over a piece-wise
trained baseline, hand-crafted models as well as other learning-based
approaches.

242
Neural RGB->D Sensing: Depth and Uncertainty from a Video Camera
2019-01-09
Depth sensing is crucial for 3D reconstruction and scene understanding.
Active depth sensors provide dense metric measurements, but often suffer from
limitations such as restricted operating ranges, low spatial resolution, sensor
interference, and high power consumption. In this paper, we propose a deep
learning (DL) method to estimate per-pixel depth and its uncertainty
continuously from a monocular video stream, with the goal of effectively
turning an RGB camera into an RGB-D camera. Unlike prior DL-based methods, we
estimate a depth probability distribution for each pixel rather than a single
depth value, leading to an estimate of a 3D depth probability volume for each
input frame. These depth probability volumes are accumulated over time under a
Bayesian filtering framework as more incoming frames are processed
sequentially, which effectively reduces depth uncertainty and improves
accuracy, robustness, and temporal stability. Compared to prior work, the
proposed approach achieves more accurate and stable results, and generalizes
better to new datasets. Experimental results also show the output of our
approach can be directly fed into classical RGB-D based 3D scanning methods for
3D scene reconstruction.

243
A Spatial-temporal 3D Human Pose Reconstruction Framework
2019-01-08
3D human pose reconstruction from single-view camera is a difficult and
challenging topic. Many approaches have been proposed, but almost focusing on
frame-by-frame independently while inter-frames are highly correlated in a pose
sequence. In contrast, we introduce a novel spatial-temporal 3D reconstruction
framework that leverages both intra and inter frame relationships in
consecutive 2D pose sequences. Orthogonal Matching Pursuit (OMP) algorithm,
pre-trained Pose-angle Limits and Temporal Models have been implemented. We
quantitatively compare our framework versus recent works on CMU motion capture
dataset and Vietnamese traditional dance sequences. Our method outperforms
others with 10 percent lower of Euclidean reconstruction error and robustness
against Gaussian noise. Additionally, it is also important to mention that our
reconstructed 3D pose sequences are smoother and more natural than others.

244
NRMVS: Non-Rigid Multi-View Stereo
2019-01-12
Scene reconstruction from unorganized RGB images is an important task in many
computer vision applications. Multi-view Stereo (MVS) is a common solution in
photogrammetry applications for the dense reconstruction of a static scene. The
static scene assumption, however, limits the general applicability of MVS
algorithms, as many day-to-day scenes undergo non-rigid motion, e.g., clothes,
faces, or human bodies. In this paper, we open up a new challenging direction:
dense 3D reconstruction of scenes with non-rigid changes observed from
arbitrary, sparse, and wide-baseline views. We formulate the problem as a joint
optimization of deformation and depth estimation, using deformation graphs as
the underlying representation. We propose a new sparse 3D to 2D matching
technique, together with a dense patch-match evaluation scheme to estimate
deformation and depth with photometric consistency. We show that creating a
dense 4D structure from a few RGB images with non-rigid changes is possible,
and demonstrate that our method can be used to interpolate novel deformed
scenes from various combinations of these deformation estimates derived from
the sparse views.

245
DeepSDF: Learning Continuous Signed Distance Functions for Shape Representation
2019-01-16
Computer graphics, 3D computer vision and robotics communities have produced
multiple approaches to representing 3D geometry for rendering and
reconstruction. These provide trade-offs across fidelity, efficiency and
compression capabilities. In this work, we introduce DeepSDF, a learned
continuous Signed Distance Function (SDF) representation of a class of shapes
that enables high quality shape representation, interpolation and completion
from partial and noisy 3D input data. DeepSDF, like its classical counterpart,
represents a shape's surface by a continuous volumetric field: the magnitude of
a point in the field represents the distance to the surface boundary and the
sign indicates whether the region is inside (-) or outside (+) of the shape,
hence our representation implicitly encodes a shape's boundary as the
zero-level-set of the learned function while explicitly representing the
classification of space as being part of the shapes interior or not. While
classical SDF's both in analytical or discretized voxel form typically
represent the surface of a single shape, DeepSDF can represent an entire class
of shapes. Furthermore, we show state-of-the-art performance for learned 3D
shape representation and completion while reducing the model size by an order
of magnitude compared with previous work.

246
Monocular Outdoor Semantic Mapping with a Multi-task Network
2019-01-17
In many robotic applications, especially for the autonomous driving, understanding the semantic information and the geometric structure of surroundings are both essential. Semantic 3D maps, as a carrier of the environmental knowledge, are then intensively studied for their abilities and applications. However, it is still challenging to produce a dense outdoor semantic map from a monocular image stream. Motivated by this target, in this paper, we propose a method for large-scale 3D reconstruction from consecutive monocular images. First, with the correlation of underlying information between depth and semantic prediction, a novel multi-task Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) is designed for joint prediction. Given a single image, the network learns low-level information with a shared encoder and separately predicts with decoders containing additional Atrous Spatial Pyramid Pooling (ASPP) layers and the residual connection which merits disparities and semantic mutually. To overcome the inconsistency of monocular depth prediction for reconstruction, post-processing steps with the superpixelization and the effective 3D representation approach are obtained to give the final semantic map. Experiments are compared with other methods on both semantic labeling and depth prediction. We also qualitatively demonstrate the map reconstructed from large-scale, difficult monocular image sequences to prove the effectiveness and superiority.

247
Deep Level Sets: Implicit Surface Representations for 3D Shape Inference
2019-01-21
This repository contains the code for the paper "Occupancy Networks - Learning 3D Reconstruction in Function Space"

248
Hybrid coarse-fine classification for head pose estimation
2019-01-21
Head pose estimation, which computes the intrinsic Euler angles (yaw, pitch, roll) from the human, is crucial for gaze estimation, face alignment, and 3D reconstruction. Traditional approaches heavily relies on the accuracy of facial landmarks. It limits their performances, especially when the visibility of the face is not in good condition. In this paper, to do the estimation without facial landmarks, we combine the coarse and fine regression output together for a deep network. Utilizing more quantization units for the angles, a fine classifier is trained with the help of other auxiliary coarse units. Integrating regression is adopted to get the final prediction. The proposed approach is evaluated on three challenging benchmarks. It achieves the state-of-the-art on AFLW2000, BIWI and performs favorably on AFLW. The code has been released on Github.

249
Learning single-image 3D reconstruction by generative modelling of shape, pose and shading
2019-01-19
We present a unified framework tackling two problems: class-specific 3D reconstruction from a single image, and generation of new 3D shape samples. These tasks have received considerable attention recently; however, most existing approaches rely on 3D supervision, annotation of 2D images with keypoints or poses, and/or training with multiple views of each object instance. Our framework is very general: it can be trained in similar settings to existing approaches, while also supporting weaker supervision. Importantly, it can be trained purely from 2D images, without pose annotations, and with only a single view per instance. We employ meshes as an output representation, instead of voxels used in most prior work. This allows us to reason over lighting parameters and exploit shading information during training, which previous 2D-supervised methods cannot. Thus, our method can learn to generate and reconstruct concave object classes. We evaluate our approach in various settings, showing that: (i) it learns to disentangle shape from pose and lighting; (ii) using shading in the loss improves performance compared to just silhouettes; (iii) when using a standard single white light, our model outperforms state-of-the-art 2D-supervised methods, both with and without pose supervision, thanks to exploiting shading cues; (iv) performance improves further when using multiple coloured lights, even approaching that of state-of-the-art 3D-supervised methods; (v) shapes produced by our model capture smooth surfaces and fine details better than voxel-based approaches; and (vi) our approach supports concave classes such as bathtubs and sofas, which methods based on silhouettes cannot learn.

250
A Novel Self-Intersection Penalty Term for Statistical Body Shape Models and Its Applications in 3D Pose Estimation
2019-01-24
Statistical body shape models are widely used in 3D pose estimation due to
their low-dimensional parameters representation. However, it is difficult to
avoid self-intersection between body parts accurately. Motivated by this fact,
we proposed a novel self-intersection penalty term for statistical body shape
models applied in 3D pose estimation. To avoid the trouble of computing
self-intersection for complex surfaces like the body meshes, the gradient of
our proposed self-intersection penalty term is manually derived from the
perspective of geometry. First, the self-intersection penalty term is defined
as the volume of the self-intersection region. To calculate the partial
derivatives with respect to the coordinates of the vertices, we employed
detection rays to divide vertices of statistical body shape models into
different groups depending on whether the vertex is in the region of
self-intersection. Second, the partial derivatives could be easily derived by
the normal vectors of neighboring triangles of the vertices. Finally, this
penalty term could be applied in gradient-based optimization algorithms to
remove the self-intersection of triangular meshes without using any
approximation. Qualitative and quantitative evaluations were conducted to
demonstrate the effectiveness and generality of our proposed method compared
with previous approaches. The experimental results show that our proposed
penalty term can avoid self-intersection to exclude unreasonable predictions
and improves the accuracy of 3D pose estimation indirectly. Further more, the
proposed method could be employed universally in triangular mesh based 3D
reconstruction.

251
Articulated and Restricted Motion Subspaces and Their Signatures
2013-06-01
Articulated objects represent an important class of objects in our everyday environment. Automatic detection of the type of articulated or otherwise restricted motion and extraction of the corresponding motion parameters are therefore of high value, e.g. in order to augment an otherwise static 3D reconstruction with dynamic semantics, such as rotation axes and allowable translation directions for certain rigid parts or objects. Hence, in this paper, a novel theory to analyse relative transformations between two motion-restricted parts will be presented. The analysis is based on linear subspaces spanned by relative transformations. Moreover, a signature for relative transformations will be introduced which uniquely specifies the type of restricted motion encoded in these relative transformations. This theoretic framework enables the derivation of novel algebraic constraints, such as low-rank constraints for subsequent rotations around two fixed axes for example. Lastly, given the type of restricted motion as predicted by the signature, the paper shows how to extract all the motion parameters with matrix manipulations from linear algebra. Our theory is verified on several real data sets, such as a rotating blackboard or a wheel rolling on the floor amongst others.

252
Monocular Template-Based 3D Reconstruction of Extensible Surfaces with Local Linear Elasticity
2013-06-01
We propose a new approach for template-based extensible surface reconstruction from a single view. We extend the method of isometric surface reconstruction and more recent work on conformal surface reconstruction. Our approach relies on the minimization of a proposed stretching energy formalized with respect to the Poisson ratio parameter of the surface. We derive a patch-based formulation of this stretching energy by assuming local linear elasticity. This formulation unifies geometrical and mechanical constraints in a single energy term. We prevent local scale ambiguities by imposing a set of fixed boundary 3D points. We experimentally prove the sufficiency of this set of boundary points and demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on different developable and non-developable surfaces with a wide range of extensibility.

253
Template-Based Isometric Deformable 3D Reconstruction with Sampling-Based Focal Length Self-Calibration
2013-06-01
It has been shown that a surface deforming isometrically can be reconstructed from a single image and a template 3D shape. Methods from the literature solve this problem efficiently. However, they all assume that the camera model is calibrated, which drastically limits their applicability. We propose (i) a general variational framework that applies to (calibrated and uncalibrated) general camera models and (ii) self-calibrating 3D reconstruction algorithms for the weak-perspective and full-perspective camera models. In the former case, our algorithm returns the normal field and camera's scale factor. In the latter case, our algorithm returns the normal field, depth and camera's focal length. Our algorithms are the first to achieve deformable 3D reconstruction including camera self-calibration. They apply to much more general setups than existing methods. Experimental results on simulated and real data show that our algorithms give results with the same level of accuracy as existing methods (which use the true focal length) on perspective images, and correctly find the normal field on affine images for which the existing methods fail.

254
A Theory of Refractive Photo-Light-Path Triangulation
2013-06-01
3D reconstruction of transparent refractive objects like a plastic bottle is challenging: they lack appearance related visual cues and merely reflect and refract light from the surrounding environment. Amongst several approaches to reconstruct such objects, the seminal work of Light-Path triangulation [17] is highly popular because of its general applicability and analysis of minimal scenarios. A lightpath is defined as the piece-wise linear path taken by a ray of light as it passes from source, through the object and into the camera. Transparent refractive objects not only affect the geometric configuration of light-paths but also their radiometric properties. In this paper, we describe a method that combines both geometric and radiometric information to do reconstruction. We show two major consequences of the addition of radiometric cues to the light-path setup. Firstly, we extend the case of scenarios in which reconstruction is plausible while reducing the minimal requirements for a unique reconstruction. This happens as a consequence of the fact that radiometric cues add an additional known variable to the already existing system of equations. Secondly, we present a simple algorithm for reconstruction, owing to the nature of the radiometric cue. We present several synthetic experiments to validate our theories, and show high quality reconstructions in challenging scenarios.

255
Joint 3D Scene Reconstruction and Class Segmentation
2013-06-01
Both image segmentation and dense 3D modeling from images represent an intrinsically ill-posed problem. Strong regularizers are therefore required to constrain the solutions from being 'too noisy'. Unfortunately, these priors generally yield overly smooth reconstructions and/or segmentations in certain regions whereas they fail in other areas to constrain the solution sufficiently. In this paper we argue that image segmentation and dense 3D reconstruction contribute valuable information to each other's task. As a consequence, we propose a rigorous mathematical framework to formulate and solve a joint segmentation and dense reconstruction problem. Image segmentations provide geometric cues about which surface orientations are more likely to appear at a certain location in space whereas a dense 3D reconstruction yields a suitable regularization for the segmentation problem by lifting the labeling from 2D images to 3D space. We show how appearance-based cues and 3D surface orientation priors can be learned from training data and subsequently used for class-specific regularization. Experimental results on several real data sets highlight the advantages of our joint formulation.

256
Joint Detection, Tracking and Mapping by Semantic Bundle Adjustment
2013-06-01
In this paper we propose a novel Semantic Bundle Adjustment framework whereby known rigid stationary objects are detected while tracking the camera and mapping the environment. The system builds on established tracking and mapping techniques to exploit incremental 3D reconstruction in order to validate hypotheses on the presence and pose of sought objects. Then, detected objects are explicitly taken into account for a global semantic optimization of both camera and object poses. Thus, unlike all systems proposed so far, our approach allows for solving jointly the detection and SLAM problems, so as to achieve object detection together with improved SLAM accuracy.

257
Relative Volume Constraints for Single View 3D Reconstruction
2013-06-01
We introduce the concept of relative volume constraints in order to account for insufficient information in the reconstruction of 3D objects from a single image. The key idea is to formulate a variational reconstruction approach with shape priors in form of relative depth profiles or volume ratios relating object parts. Such shape priors can easily be derived either from a user sketch or from the object's shading profile in the image. They can handle textured or shadowed object regions by propagating information. We propose a convex relaxation of the constrained optimization problem which can be solved optimally in a few seconds on graphics hardware. In contrast to existing single view reconstruction algorithms, the proposed algorithm provides substantially more flexibility to recover shape details such as self-occlusions, dents and holes, which are not visible in the object silhouette.

258
Learning a Manifold as an Atlas
2013-06-01
In this work, we return to the underlying mathematical definition of a manifold and directly characterise learning a manifold as finding an atlas, or a set of overlapping charts, that accurately describe local structure. We formulate the problem of learning the manifold as an optimisation that simultaneously refines the continuous parameters defining the charts, and the discrete assignment of points to charts. In contrast to existing methods, this direct formulation of a manifold does not require "unwrapping" the manifold into a lower dimensional space and allows us to learn closed manifolds of interest to vision, such as those corresponding to gait cycles or camera pose. We report state-ofthe-art results for manifold based nearest neighbour classification on vision datasets, and show how the same techniques can be applied to the 3D reconstruction of human motion from a single image.

259
Tensor-Based Human Body Modeling
2013-06-01
In this paper, we present a novel approach to model 3D human body with variations on both human shape and pose, by exploring a tensor decomposition technique. 3D human body modeling is important for 3D reconstruction and animation of realistic human body, which can be widely used in Tele-presence and video game applications. It is challenging due to a wide range of shape variations over different people and poses. The existing SCAPE model [4] is popular in computer vision for modeling 3D human body. However, it considers shape and pose deformations separately, which is not accurate since pose deformation is persondependent. Our tensor-based model addresses this issue by jointly modeling shape and pose deformations. Experimental results demonstrate that our tensor-based model outperforms the SCAPE model quite significantly. We also apply our model to capture human body using Microsoft Kinect sensors with excellent results.

260
Dense 3D Reconstruction from Severely Blurred Images Using a Single Moving Camera
2013-06-01
Motion blur frequently occurs in dense 3D reconstruction using a single moving camera, and it degrades the quality of the 3D reconstruction. To handle motion blur caused by rapid camera shakes, we propose a blur-aware depth reconstruction method, which utilizes a pixel correspondence that is obtained by considering the effect of motion blur. Motion blur is dependent on 3D geometry, thus parameterizing blurred appearance of images with scene depth given camera motion is possible and a depth map can be accurately estimated from the blur-considered pixel correspondence. The estimated depth is then converted into pixel-wise blur kernels, and non-uniform motion blur is easily removed with low computational cost. The obtained blur kernel is depth-dependent, thus it effectively addresses scene-depth variation, which is a challenging problem in conventional non-uniform deblurring methods.

261
Dense Reconstruction Using 3D Object Shape Priors
2013-06-01
We propose a formulation of monocular SLAM which combines live dense reconstruction with shape priors-based 3D tracking and reconstruction. Current live dense SLAM approaches are limited to the reconstruction of visible surfaces. Moreover, most of them are based on the minimisation of a photo-consistency error, which usually makes them sensitive to specularities. In the 3D pose recovery literature, problems caused by imperfect and ambiguous image information have been dealt with by using prior shape knowledge. At the same time, the success of depth sensors has shown that combining joint image and depth information drastically increases the robustness of the classical monocular 3D tracking and 3D reconstruction approaches. In this work we link dense SLAM to 3D object pose and shape recovery. More specifically, we automatically augment our SLAM system with object specific identity, together with 6D pose and additional shape degrees of freedom for the object(s) of known class in the scene, combining image data and depth information for the pose and shape recovery. This leads to a system that allows for full scaled 3D reconstruction with the known object(s) segmented from the scene. The segmentation enhances the clarity, accuracy and completeness of the maps built by the dense SLAM system, while the dense 3D data aids the segmentation process, yielding faster and more reliable convergence than when using 2D image data alone.

262
Simultaneous Super-Resolution of Depth and Images Using a Single Camera
2013-06-01
In this paper, we propose a convex optimization framework for simultaneous estimation of super-resolved depth map and images from a single moving camera. The pixel measurement error in 3D reconstruction is directly related to the resolution of the images at hand. In turn, even a small measurement error can cause significant errors in reconstructing 3D scene structure or camera pose. Therefore, enhancing image resolution can be an effective solution for securing the accuracy as well as the resolution of 3D reconstruction. In the proposed method, depth map estimation and image super-resolution are formulated in a single energy minimization framework with a convex function and solved efficiently by a first-order primal-dual algorithm. Explicit inter-frame pixel correspondences are not required for our super-resolution procedure, thus we can avoid a huge computation time and obtain improved depth map in the accuracy and resolution as well as highresolution images with reasonable time. The superiority of our algorithm is demonstrated by presenting the improved depth map accuracy, image super-resolution results, and camera pose estimation.

263
Class Specific 3D Object Shape Priors Using Surface Normals
2014-06-01
Dense 3D reconstruction of real world objects containing textureless, reflective and specular parts is a challenging task. Using general smoothness priors such as surface area regularization can lead to defects in the form of disconnected parts or unwanted indentations. We argue that this problem can be solved by exploiting the object class specific local surface orientations, e.g. a car is always close to horizontal in the roof area. Therefore, we formulate an object class specific shape prior in the form of spatially varying anisotropic smoothness terms. The parameters of the shape prior are extracted from training data. We detail how our shape prior formulation directly fits into recently proposed volumetric multi-label reconstruction approaches. This allows a segmentation between the object and its supporting ground. In our experimental evaluation we show reconstructions using our trained shape prior on several challenging datasets.

264
Frequency-Based 3D Reconstruction of Transparent and Specular Objects
2014-06-01
3D reconstruction of transparent and specular objects is a very challenging topic in computer vision. For transparent and specular objects, which have complex interior and exterior structures that can reflect and refract light in a complex fashion, it is difficult, if not impossible, to use either passive stereo or the traditional structured light methods to do the reconstruction. We propose a frequency-based 3D reconstruction method, which incorporates the frequency-based matting method. Similar to the structured light methods, a set of frequency-based patterns are projected onto the object, and a camera captures the scene. Each pixel of the captured image is analyzed along the time axis and the corresponding signal is transformed to the frequency-domain using the Discrete Fourier Transform. Since the frequency is only determined by the source that creates it, the frequency of the signal can uniquely identify the location of the pixel in the patterns. In this way, the correspondences between the pixels in the captured images and the points in the patterns can be acquired. Using a new labelling procedure, the surface of transparent and specular objects can be reconstructed with very encouraging results.

265
Single-View 3D Scene Parsing by Attributed Grammar
2014-06-01
In this paper, we present an attributed grammar for parsing man-made outdoor scenes into semantic surfaces, and recovering its 3D model simultaneously. The grammar takes superpixels as its terminal nodes and use five production rules to generate the scene into a hierarchical parse graph. Each graph node actually correlates with a surface or a composite of surfaces in the 3D world or the 2D image. They are described by attributes for the global scene model, e.g. focal length, vanishing points, or the surface properties, e.g. surface normal, contact line with other surfaces, and relative spatial location etc. Each production rule is associated with some equations that constraint the attributes of the parent nodes and those of their children nodes. Given an input image, our goal is to construct a hierarchical parse graph by recursively applying the five grammar rules while preserving the attributes constraints. We develop an effective top-down/bottom-up cluster sampling procedure which can explore this constrained space efficiently. We evaluate our method on both public benchmarks and newly built datasets, and achieve state-of-the-art performances in terms of layout estimation and region segmentation. We also demonstrate that our method is able to recover detailed 3D model with relaxed Manhattan structures which clearly advances the state-of-the-arts of singleview 3D reconstruction.

266
When 3D Reconstruction Meets Ubiquitous RGB-D Images
2014-06-01
3D reconstruction from a single image is a classical problem in computer vision. However, it still poses great challenges for the reconstruction of daily-use objects with irregular shapes. In this paper, we propose to learn 3D reconstruction knowledge from informally captured RGB-D images, which will probably be ubiquitously used in daily life. The learning of 3D reconstruction is defined as a category modeling problem, in which a model for each category is trained to encode category-specific knowledge for 3D reconstruction. The category model estimates the pixel-level 3D structure of an object from its 2D appearance, by taking into account considerable variations in rotation, 3D structure, and texture. Learning 3D reconstruction from ubiquitous RGB-D images creates a new set of challenges. Experimental results have demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed approach.

267
Stable Template-Based Isometric 3D Reconstruction in All Imaging Conditions by Linear Least-Squares
2014-06-01
It has been recently shown that reconstructing an isometric surface from a single 2D input image matched to a 3D template was a well-posed problem. This however does not tell us how reconstruction algorithms will behave in practical conditions, where the amount of perspective is generally small and the projection thus behaves like weak-perspective or orthography. We here bring answers to what is theoretically recoverable in such imaging conditions, and explain why existing convex numerical solutions and analytical solutions to 3D reconstruction may be unstable. We then propose a new algorithm which works under all imaging conditions, from strong to loose perspective. We empirically show that the gain in stability is tremendous, bringing our results close to the iterative minimization of a statisticallyoptimal cost. Our algorithm has a low complexity, is simple and uses only one round of linear least-squares.

268
Multi-Output Learning for Camera Relocalization
2014-06-01
We address the problem of estimating the pose of a cam- era relative to a known 3D scene from a single RGB-D frame. We formulate this problem as inversion of the generative rendering procedure, i.e., we want to find the camera pose corresponding to a rendering of the 3D scene model that is most similar with the observed input. This is a non-convex optimization problem with many local optima. We propose a hybrid discriminative-generative learning architecture that consists of: (i) a set of M predictors which generate M camera pose hypotheses; and (ii) a 'selector' or 'aggregator' that infers the best pose from the multiple pose hypotheses based on a similarity function. We are interested in predictors that not only produce good hypotheses but also hypotheses that are different from each other. Thus, we propose and study methods for learning 'marginally relevant' predictors, and compare their performance when used with different selection procedures. We evaluate our method on a recently released 3D reconstruction dataset with challenging camera poses, and scene variability. Experiments show that our method learns to make multiple predictions that are marginally relevant and can effectively select an accurate prediction. Furthermore, our method outperforms the state-of-the-art discriminative approach for camera relocalization.

269
MAP Visibility Estimation for Large-Scale Dynamic 3D Reconstruction
2014-06-01
Many traditional challenges in reconstructing 3D motion, such as matching across wide baselines and handling occlusion, reduce in significance as the number of unique viewpoints increases. However, to obtain this benefit, a new challenge arises: estimating precisely which cameras observe which points at each instant in time. We present a maximum a posteriori (MAP) estimate of the time-varying visibility of the target points to reconstruct the 3D motion of an event from a large number of cameras. Our algorithm takes, as input, camera poses and image sequences, and outputs the time-varying set of the cameras in which a target patch is visibile and its reconstructed trajectory. We model visibility estimation as a MAP estimate by incorporating various cues including photometric consistency, motion consistency, and geometric consistency, in conjunction with a prior that rewards consistent visibilities in proximal cameras. An optimal estimate of visibility is obtained by finding the minimum cut of a capacitated graph over cameras. We demonstrate that our method estimates visibility with greater accuracy, and increases tracking performance producing longer trajectories, at more locations, and at higher accuracies than methods that ignore visibility or use photometric consistency alone.

270
Energy Based Multi-model Fitting & Matching for 3D Reconstruction
2014-06-01
Standard geometric model fitting methods take as an input a fixed set of feature pairs greedily matched based only on their appearances. Inadvertently, many valid matches are discarded due to repetitive texture or large baseline between view points. To address this problem, matching should consider both feature appearances and geometric fitting errors. We jointly solve feature matching and multi-model fitting problems by optimizing one energy. The formulation is based on our generalization of the assignment problem and its efficient min-cost-max-flow solver. Our approach significantly increases the number of correctly matched features, improves the accuracy of fitted models, and is robust to larger baselines.

271
Photometric Bundle Adjustment for Dense Multi-View 3D Modeling
2014-06-01
Motivated by a Bayesian vision of the 3D multi-view reconstruction from images problem, we propose a dense 3D reconstruction technique that jointly refines the shape and the camera parameters of a scene by minimizing the photometric reprojection error between a generated model and the observed images, hence considering all pixels in the original images. The minimization is performed using a gradient descent scheme coherent with the shape representation (here a triangular mesh), where we derive evolution equations in order to optimize both the shape and the camera parameters. This can be used at a last refinement step in 3D reconstruction pipelines and helps improving the 3D reconstruction's quality by estimating the 3D shape and camera calibration more accurately. Examples are shown for multi-view stereo where the texture is also jointly optimized and improved, but could be used for any generative approaches dealing with multi-view reconstruction settings (i.e. depth map fusion, multi-view photometric stereo).

272
The Photometry of Intrinsic Images
2014-06-01
Intrinsic characterization of scenes is often the best way to overcome the illumination variability artifacts that complicate most computer vision problems, from 3D reconstruction to object or material recognition. This paper examines the deficiency of  existing intrinsic image models to accurately  account  for the effects of illuminant color and sensor characteristics in the estimation of intrinsic images and presents a generic framework which incorporates insights from color constancy research to  the intrinsic image decomposition problem. The proposed mathematical formulation includes information about the color of the illuminant and the effects of the camera sensors, both of which modify the observed color of the reflectance of the objects in the scene during the acquisition process. By modeling these effects, we get a "truly intrinsic" reflectance image, which we call absolute reflectance, which is invariant to changes of illuminant or camera sensors. This model allows us to represent a wide range of intrinsic image decompositions depending on the specific assumptions on the geometric properties of the scene configuration and the spectral properties of the light source and the acquisition system, thus unifying previous models in a single general framework. We demonstrate that even partial information about sensors improves significantly the estimated reflectance images, thus making our method applicable for a wide range of sensors. We validate our general intrinsic image framework experimentally with both synthetic data and natural images.

273
Complex Non-Rigid Motion 3D Reconstruction by Union of Subspaces
2014-06-01
The task of estimating complex non-rigid 3D motion through a monocular camera is of increasing interest to the wider scientific community. Assuming one has the 2D point tracks of the non-rigid object in question, the vision community refers to this problem as Non-Rigid Structure from Motion (NRSfM). In this paper we make two contributions. First, we demonstrate empirically that the current state of the art approach to NRSfM (i.e. Dai et al. [5]) exhibits poor reconstruction performance on complex motion (i.e motions involving a sequence of primitive actions such as walk, sit and stand involving a human object). Second, we propose that this limitation can be circumvented by modeling complex motion as a union of subspaces. This does not naturally occur in Dai et al.'s approach which instead makes a less compact summation of subspaces assumption. Experiments on both synthetic and real videos illustrate the benefits of our approach for the complex nonrigid motion analysis.

274
Learning-by-Synthesis for Appearance-based 3D Gaze Estimation
2014-06-01
Inferring human gaze from low-resolution eye images is still a challenging task despite its practical importance in many application scenarios. This paper presents a learning-by-synthesis approach to accurate image-based gaze estimation that is person- and head pose-independent. Unlike existing appearance-based methods that assume person-specific training data, we use a large amount of cross-subject training data to train a 3D gaze estimator. We collect the largest and fully calibrated multi-view gaze dataset and perform a 3D reconstruction in order to generate dense training data of eye images. By using the synthesized dataset to learn a random regression forest, we show that our method outperforms existing methods that use low-resolution eye images.

275
Reflectance and Fluorescent Spectra Recovery based on Fluorescent Chromaticity Invariance under Varying Illumination
2014-06-01
In recent years, fluorescence analysis of scenes has received attention. Fluorescence can provide additional information about  scenes, and has been used in  applications such as camera spectral sensitivity estimation, 3D reconstruction,   and color relighting. In particular, hyperspectral images of reflective-fluorescent scenes provide a rich amount of data. However, due to the complex nature of fluorescence, hyperspectral imaging methods rely on specialized equipment such as hyperspectral cameras and specialized illuminants. In this paper, we propose a more practical approach to hyperspectral imaging of reflective-fluorescent scenes using only a conventional RGB camera and   varied colored illuminants. The key idea of our approach is to exploit a unique property of fluorescence: the chromaticity of fluorescence emissions are invariant under different illuminants. This allows us to robustly estimate   spectral reflectance and fluorescence emission chromaticity. We then show that given the spectral reflectance and fluorescent chromaticity, the fluorescence absorption and emission spectra can also be estimated. We demonstrate in results that all scene spectra can be accurately estimated from RGB images. Finally, we   show that our method can be used to accurately relight scenes under novel lighting.

276
High Quality Photometric Reconstruction using a Depth Camera
2014-06-01
In this paper we present a depth-guided photometric 3D reconstruction method that works solely with a depth camera like the Kinect. Existing methods that fuse depth with normal estimates use an external RGB camera to obtain photometric information and treat the depth camera as a black box that provides a low quality depth estimate. Our contribution to such methods are two fold. Firstly, instead of using an extra RGB camera, we use the infra-red (IR) camera of the depth camera system itself to directly obtain high resolution photometric information. We believe that ours is the first method to use an IR depth camera system in this manner. Secondly, photometric methods applied to complex objects result in numerous holes in the reconstructed surface due to shadows and self-occlusions. To mitigate this problem, we develop a simple and effective multiview reconstruction approach that fuses depth and normal information from multiple viewpoints to build a complete, consistent and accurate 3D surface representation. We demonstrate the efficacy of our method to generate high quality 3D surface reconstructions for some complex 3D figurines.

277
Robust 3D Features for Matching between Distorted Range Scans Captured by Moving Systems
2014-06-01
Laser range sensors are often demanded to mount on a moving platform for achieving the good efficiency of 3D reconstruction. However, such moving systems often suffer from the difficulty of matching the distorted range scans. In this paper, we propose novel 3D features which can be robustly extracted and matched even for the distorted 3D surface captured by a moving system. Our feature extraction employs Morse theory to construct Morse functions which capture the critical points approximately invariant to the 3D surface distortion. Then for each critical point, we extract support regions with the maximally stable region defined by extremal region or disconnectivity. Our feature description is designed as two steps: 1) we normalize the detected local regions to canonical shapes for robust matching; 2) we encode each key point with multiple vectors at different Morse function values. In experiments, we demonstrate that the proposed 3D features achieve substantially better performance for distorted surface matching than the state-of-the-art methods.

278
Diffuse Mirrors: 3D Reconstruction from Diffuse Indirect Illumination Using Inexpensive Time-of-Flight Sensors
2014-06-01
The functional difference between a diffuse wall and a mirror is well understood: one scatters back into all directions, and the other one preserves the directionality of reflected light. The temporal structure of the light, however, is left intact by both: assuming simple surface reflection, photons that arrive first are reflected first. In this paper, we exploit this insight to recover objects outside the line of sight from second-order diffuse reflections, effectively turning walls into mirrors. We formulate the reconstruction task as a linear inverse problem on the transient response of a scene, which we acquire using an affordable setup consisting of a modulated light source and a time-of-flight image sensor. By exploiting sparsity in the reconstruction domain, we achieve resolutions in the order of a few centimeters for object shape (depth and laterally) and albedo. Our method is robust to ambient light and works for large room-sized scenes. It is drastically faster and less expensive than previous approaches using femtosecond lasers and streak cameras, and does not require any moving parts.

279
Local Readjustment for High-Resolution 3D Reconstruction
2014-06-01
Global bundle adjustment usually converges to a non-zero residual and produces sub-optimal camera poses for local areas, which leads to loss of details for high- resolution reconstruction. Instead of trying harder to optimize everything globally, we argue that we should live with the non-zero residual and adapt the camera poses to local areas. To this end, we propose a segment-based approach to readjust the camera poses locally and improve the reconstruction for fine geometry details. The key idea is to partition the globally optimized structure from motion points into well-conditioned segments for re-optimization, reconstruct their geometry individually, and fuse everything back into a consistent global model. This significantly reduces severe propagated errors and estimation biases caused by the initial global adjustment. The results on several datasets demonstrate that this approach can significantly improve the reconstruction accuracy, while maintaining the consistency of the 3D structure between segments.

280
Turning Mobile Phones into 3D Scanners
2014-06-01
In this paper, we propose an efficient and accurate scheme for the integration of multiple stereo-based depth measurements. For each provided depth map a confidence-based weight is assigned to each depth estimate by evaluating local geometry orientation, underlying camera setting and photometric evidence. Subsequently, all hypotheses are fused together into a compact and consistent 3D model. Thereby, visibility conflicts are identified and resolved, and fitting measurements are averaged with regard to their confidence scores. The individual stages of the proposed approach are validated by comparing it to two alternative techniques which rely on a conceptually different fusion scheme and a different confidence inference, respectively. Pursuing live 3D reconstruction on mobile devices as a primary goal, we demonstrate that the developed method can easily be integrated into a system for monocular interactive 3D modeling by substantially improving its accuracy while adding a negligible overhead to its performance and retaining its interactive potential.

281
Motion-Depth: RGB-D Depth Map Enhancement with Motion and Depth in Complement
2014-06-01
Low-cost RGB-D imaging system such as Kinect is widely utilized for dense 3D reconstruction. However, RGB-D system generally suffers from two main problems. The spatial resolution of the depth image is low. The depth image often contains numerous holes where no depth measurements are available. This can be due to bad infra-red reflectance properties of some objects in the scene. Since the spatial resolution of the color image is generally higher than that of the depth image, this paper introduces a new method to enhance the depth images captured by a moving RGB-D system using the depth cues from the induced optical flow. We not only fill the holes in the raw depth images, but also recover fine details of the imaged scene. We address the problem of depth image enhancement by minimizing an energy functional. In order to reduce the computational complexity, we have treated the textured and homogeneous regions in the color images differently. Experimental results on several RGB-D sequences are provided to show the effectiveness of the proposed method.

282
3D Reconstruction from Accidental Motion
2014-06-01
We have discovered that 3D reconstruction can be achieved from asingle still photographic capture due to accidental motions of thephotographer, even while attempting to hold the camera still.  Although these motions result in little baseline and therefore high depth uncertainty, in theory, we can combine many such measurements over the duration of the capture process (a few seconds) to achieve usable depth estimates.  Wepresent a novel 3D reconstruction system tailored for this problemthat produces depth maps from short video sequences from standard cameraswithout the need for multi-lens optics, active sensors, or intentionalmotions by the photographer.  This result leads to the possibilitythat depth maps of sufficient quality for RGB-D photography applications likeperspective change, simulated aperture, and object segmentation, cancome "for free" for a significant fraction of still photographsunder reasonable conditions.

283
SUN RGB-D: A RGB-D Scene Understanding Benchmark Suite
2015-06-01
Although RGB-D sensors have enabled major breakthroughs for several vision tasks, such as 3D reconstruction, we have not attained the same level of success in high-level scene understanding. Perhaps one of the main reasons is the lack of a large-scale benchmark with 3D annotations and 3D evaluation metrics. In this paper, we introduce an RGB-D benchmark suite for the goal of advancing the state-of-the-arts in all major scene understanding tasks. Our dataset is captured by four different sensors and contains 10,335 RGB-D images, at a similar scale as PASCAL VOC. The whole dataset is densely annotated and includes 146,617 2D polygons and 64,595 3D bounding boxes with accurate object orientations, as well as a 3D room layout and scene category for each image. This dataset enables us to train data-hungry algorithms for scene-understanding tasks, evaluate them using meaningful 3D metrics, avoid overfitting to a small testing set, and study cross-sensor bias.

284
Line-Sweep: Cross-Ratio For Wide-Baseline Matching and 3D Reconstruction
2015-06-01
We propose a simple and useful idea based on cross-ratio constraint for wide-baseline matching and 3D reconstruction. Most existing methods exploit feature points and planes from images. Lines have always been considered notorious for both matching and reconstruction due to the lack of good line descriptors. We propose a method to generate and match new points using virtual lines constructed using pairs of keypoints, which are obtained using standard feature point detectors. We use cross-ratio constraints to obtain an initial set of new point matches, which are subsequently used to obtain line correspondences. We develop a method that works for both calibrated and uncalibrated camera configurations. We show compelling line-matching and large-scale 3D reconstruction. 

285
Direct Structure Estimation for 3D Reconstruction
2015-06-01
Most conventional structure-from-motion (SFM) techniques require camera pose estimation before computing any scene structure. In this work we show that when combined with single/multiple homography estimation, the general Euclidean rigidity constraint provides a simple formulation for scene structure recovery without explicit camera pose computation. This direct structure estimation (DSE) opens a new way to design a SFM system that reverses the order of structure and motion estimation. We show that this alternative approach works well for recovering scene structure and camera poses from sideway motion given planar or general man-made scenes.

286
Segment Based 3D Object Shape Priors
2015-06-01
Dense 3D reconstruction still remains a hard task for a broad number of object classes which are not sufficiently textured or contain transparent and reflective parts. Shape priors are the tool of choice when the input data itself is not descriptive enough to get a faithful reconstruction. We propose a novel shape prior formulation that splits the object into multiple convex parts. The reconstruction problem is posed as a volumetric multi-label segmentation. Each of the transitions between labels is penalized with its individual anisotropic smoothness term. This powerful formulation allows us to represent a descriptive shape prior. For the object classes used in this paper the individual segments naturally correspond to different semantic parts of the object. This leads to a semantic segmentation as a side product of our shape prior formulation. We evaluate our method on several challenging real-world datasets. Our results show that we can resolve issues such as undesired holes and disconnected parts.  Taking into account a segmentation of the free space, we show that we are able to reconstruct concavities, such as the interior of a mug.

287
Adopting an Unconstrained Ray Model in Light-Field Cameras for 3D Shape Reconstruction
2015-06-01
Due to their recent availability as off-the-shelf commercial devices, light-field cameras has gathered increasing attention from both scientific community and industrial operators. However, their composite imaging formation process hinders the ability to exploit the well consolidated stack of calibration methods that are available for traditional cameras. While several efforts have been done to propose practical approaches, most of them still rely on the quasi-pinhole behaviour of the single microlens involved in the capturing process. This results in several drawbacks, ranging from the difficulties in feature detection, due to the reduced size of each microlens, to the need to adopt a model with a relatively small number of parameters. With this paper we propose to embrace a fully non-parametric model for the imaging and we show that it can be properly calibrated with little effort using a dense active target. This process produces a dense set of independent rays that cannot be directly used to produce a conventional image. However, they are an ideal tool for 3D reconstruction tasks, since they are highly redundant, very accurate and they cover a wide range of different baselines. The feasibility and convenience of the process and the accuracy of the obtained calibration are comprehensively evaluated through several experiments.

288
Exact Bias Correction and Covariance Estimation for Stereo Vision
2015-06-01
We present an approach for correcting the bias in 3D reconstruction of points imaged by a calibrated stereo rig. Our analysis is based on the observation that, due to quantization error, a 3D point reconstructed by triangulation essentially represents an entire region in space.  The true location of the world point that generated the triangulated point could be anywhere in this region.  We argue that the reconstructed point, if it is to represent this region in space without bias, should be located at the centroid of this region, which is not what has been done in the literature.  We derive the exact geometry of these regions in space, which we call 3D cells, and we show how they can be viewed as uniform distributions of possible pre-images of the pair of corresponding pixels. By assuming a uniform distribution of points in 3D, as opposed to a uniform distribution of the projections of these 3D points on the images, we arrive at a fast and exact computation of the triangulation bias in each cell. In addition, we derive the exact covariance matrices of the 3D cells. We validate our approach in a variety of simulations ranging from 3D reconstruction to camera localization and relative motion estimation. In all cases, we are able to demonstrate a marked improvement compared to conventional techniques for small disparity values, for which bias is significant and the required corrections are large.

289
3D Reconstruction in the Presence of Glasses by Acoustic and Stereo Fusion
2015-06-01
We present a practical and inexpensive method to reconstruct 3D scenes that include piece-wise planar transparent objects. Our work is motivated by the need for automatically generating 3D models of interior scenes, in which glass structures are common. These large structures are often invisible to cameras or even our human visual system. Existing 3D reconstruction methods for transparent objects are usually not applicable in such a room-size reconstruction setting. Our approach augments a regular depth camera (e.g., the Microsoft Kinect camera) with a single ultrasonic sensor, which is able to measure distance to any objects, including transparent surfaces. We present a novel sensor fusion algorithm that first segments the depth map into different categories such as opaque/transparent/infinity (e.g., too far to measure) and then updates the depth map based on the segmentation outcome. Our current hardware setup can generate only one additional point measurement per frame, yet our fusion algorithm is able to generate satisfactory reconstruction results based on our probabilistic model. We highlight the performance in many challenging indoor benchmarks. 

290
From Single Image Query to Detailed 3D Reconstruction
2015-06-01
Structure-from-Motion for unordered image collections has significantly advanced in scale over the last decade. This impressive progress can be in part attributed to the introduction of efficient retrieval methods for those systems. While this boosts scalability, it also limits the amount of detail that the large-scale reconstruction systems are able to produce. In this paper, we propose a joint reconstruction and retrieval system that maintains the scalability of large-scale Structure-from-Motion systems while also recovering the often lost ability of reconstructing fine details of the scene. We demonstrate our proposed method on a large-scale dataset of 7.4 million images downloaded from the Internet.

291
Spatiotemporal Bundle Adjustment for Dynamic 3D Reconstruction
2016-06-01
Bundle adjustment jointly optimizes camera intrinsics and extrinsics and 3D point triangulation to reconstruct a static scene. The triangulation constraint however is invalid for moving points captured in multiple unsynchronized videos and bundle adjustment is not purposed to estimate the temporal alignment between cameras. In this paper, we present a spatiotemporal bundle adjustment approach that jointly optimizes four coupled sub-problems: estimating camera intrinsics and extrinsics, triangulating 3D static points, as well as subframe temporal alignment between cameras and estimating 3D trajectories of dynamic points. Key to our joint optimization is the careful integration of physics-based motion priors within the reconstruction pipeline, validated on a large motion capture corpus. We present an end-to-end pipeline that takes multiple uncalibrated and unsynchronized video streams and produces a dynamic reconstruction of the event. Because the videos are aligned with sub-frame precision, we reconstruct 3D trajectories of unconstrained outdoor activities at much higher temporal resolution than the input videos.

292
Inextensible Non-Rigid Shape-From-Motion by Second-Order Cone Programming
2016-06-01
We present a global and convex formulation for template-less 3D reconstruction of a deforming object with the perspective camera.    We show for the first time how to construct a Second-Order Cone Programming (SOCP) problem for Non-Rigid Shape-from-Motion (NRSfM) using the Maximum-Depth Heuristic (MDH).    In this regard, we deviate strongly from the general trend of using affine cameras and factorization-based methods to solve NRSfM.    In MDH, the points' depths are maximized so that the distance between neighbouring points in camera space are upper bounded by the geodesic distance.    In NRSfM both geodesic and camera space distances are unknown.    We show that, nonetheless, given point correspondences and the camera's intrinsics the whole problem is convex and solvable with SOCP. We show with extensive experiments that our method accurately reconstructs quasi-isometric surfaces from partial views under articulated and strong deformations. It naturally handles missing correspondences, non-smooth objects and is very simple to implement compared to previous methods, with only one free parameter (the neighbourhood size).

293
Large-Scale Semantic 3D Reconstruction: An Adaptive Multi-Resolution Model for Multi-Class Volumetric Labeling
2016-06-01
We propose an adaptive multi-resolution formulation of semantic 3D reconstruction. Given a set of images of a scene, semantic 3D reconstruction aims to densely reconstruct both the 3D shape of the scene and a segmentation into semantic object classes. Jointly reasoning about shape and class allows one to take into account class-specific shape priors (e.g., building walls should be smooth and vertical, and vice versa smooth, vertical surfaces are likely to be building walls), leading to improved reconstruction results. So far, semantic 3D reconstruction methods have been limited to small scenes and low resolution, because of their large memory footprint and computational cost. To scale them up to large scenes, we propose a hierarchical scheme which refines the reconstruction only in regions that are likely to contain a surface, exploiting the fact that both high spatial resolution and high numerical precision are only required in those regions. Our scheme amounts to solving a sequence of convex optimizations while progressively removing constraints, in such a way that the energy, in each iteration, is the tightest possible approximation of the underlying energy at full resolution. In our experiments the method saves up to 98% memory and 95% computation time, without any loss of accuracy.

294
Patches, Planes and Probabilities: A Non-Local Prior for Volumetric 3D Reconstruction
2016-06-01
In this paper, we propose a non-local structured prior for volumetric multi-view 3D reconstruction. Towards this goal, we present a novel Markov random field model based on ray potentials in which assumptions about large 3D surface patches such as planarity or Manhattan world constraints can be efficiently encoded as probabilistic priors. We further derive an inference algorithm that reasons jointly about voxels, pixels and image segments, and estimates marginal distributions of appearance, occupancy, depth, normals and planarity. Key to tractable inference is a novel hybrid representation that spans both voxel and pixel space and that integrates non-local information from 2D image segmentations in a principled way. We compare our non-local prior to commonly employed local smoothness assumptions and a variety of state-of-the-art volumetric reconstruction baselines on challenging outdoor scenes with textureless and reflective surfaces. Our experiments indicate that regularizing over larger distances has the potential to resolve ambiguities where local regularizers fail.

295
Piecewise-Planar 3D Approximation From Wide-Baseline Stereo
2016-06-01
This paper approximates the 3D geometry of a scene by a small number of 3D planes. The method is especially suited to man-made scenes, and only requires two calibrated wide-baseline views as inputs. It relies on the computation of a dense but noisy 3D point cloud, as for example obtained by matching DAISY descriptors between the views.  It then segments one of the two reference images, and adopts a multi-model fitting process to assign a 3D plane to each region, when the region is not detected as occluded. A pool of 3D plane hypotheses is first derived from the 3D point cloud, to include planes that reasonably approximate the part of the 3D point cloud observed from each reference view between randomly selected triplets of 3D points. The hypothesis-to-region assignment problem is then formulated as an energy-minimization problem, which simultaneously optimizes an original data-fidelity term, the assignment smoothness over neighboring regions, and the number of assigned planar proxies. The synthesis of intermediate viewpoints demonstrates the effectiveness of our 3D reconstruction, and thereby the relevance of our proposed data-fidelity metric.

296
Sparse to Dense 3D Reconstruction From Rolling Shutter Images
2016-06-01
It is well known that the rolling shutter effect in images captured with a moving rolling shutter camera causes inaccuracies to 3D reconstructions. The problem is further aggravated with weak visual connectivity from wide baseline images captured with a fast moving camera. In this paper, we propose and implement a pipeline for sparse to dense 3D construction with wide baseline images captured from a fast moving rolling shutter camera. pecifically, we propose a cost function for Bundle Adjustment (BA) that models the rolling shutter effect, incorporates GPS/INS readings, and enforces pairwise smoothness between neighboring poses. We optimize over the 3D structures, camera poses and velocities. We also introduce a novel interpolation scheme for the rolling shutter plane sweep stereo algorithm that allows us to achieve a 7x speed up in the depth map computations for dense reconstruction without losing accuracy. We evaluate our proposed pipeline over a 2.6km image sequence captured with a rolling shutter camera mounted on a moving car.

297
Multicamera Calibration From Visible and Mirrored Epipoles
2016-06-01
Multicamera rigs are used in a large number of 3D Vision applications, such as 3D modeling, motion capture or telepresence and a robust calibration is of utmost importance in order to achieve a high accuracy results. In many practical configurations the cameras in a rig are arranged in such a way, that they can observe each other, in other words a number of epipoles correspond to the real image points. In this paper we propose a solution for the automatic recovery of the external calibration of a multicamera system by enforcing only simple geometrical constraints, arising from the epipole visibility, without using any calibration object, such as checkerboards, laser pointers or similar. Additionally, we introduce an extension of the method that handles the case of epipoles being visible in the reflection of a planar mirror, which makes the algorithm suitable for the calibration of any multicamera system, irrespective of the number of cameras and their actual mutual visibility, and furthermore we remark that it requires only one or a few images per camera and therefore features a high speed and usability. We produce an evidence of the algorithm effectiveness by presenting a wide set of tests performed on synthetic as well as real datasets and we compare the results with those obtained using a traditional LED-based algorithm. The real datasets have been captured using a multicamera Virtual Reality (VR) rig and a spherical dome configuration for 3D reconstruction.

298
Automated 3D Face Reconstruction From Multiple Images Using Quality Measures
2016-06-01
Automated 3D reconstruction of faces from images is challenging if the image material is difficult in terms of pose, lighting, occlusions and facial expressions, and if the initial 2D feature positions are inaccurate or unreliable. We propose a method that reconstructs individual 3D shapes from multiple single images of one person, judges their quality and then combines the best of all results. This is done separately for different regions of the face. The core element of this algorithm and the focus of our paper is a quality measure that judges a reconstruction without information about the true shape. We evaluate different quality measures, develop a method for combining results, and present a complete processing pipeline for automated reconstruction.

299
Structure-From-Motion Revisited
2016-06-01
Incremental Structure-from-Motion is a prevalent strategy for 3D reconstruction from unordered image collections. While incremental reconstruction systems have tremendously advanced in all regards, robustness, accuracy, completeness, and scalability remain the key problems towards building a truly general-purpose pipeline. We propose a new SfM technique that improves upon the state of the art to make a further step towards this ultimate goal. The full reconstruction pipeline is released to the public as an open-source implementation.

300
Unbiased Photometric Stereo for Colored Surfaces: A Variational Approach
2016-06-01
3D shape recovery using photometric stereo (PS) gained increasing attention in the computer vision community in the last three decades due to its ability to recover the thinnest geometric structures. Yet, the reliabiliy of PS for color images is difficult to guarantee, because existing methods are usually formulated as the sequential estimation of the colored albedos, the normals and the depth. Hence, the overall reliability depends on that of each subtask. In this work we propose a new formulation of color photometric stereo, based on image ratios, that makes the technique independent from the albedos. This allows the unbiased 3D-reconstruction of colored surfaces in a single step, by solving a system of linear PDEs using a variational approach.

301
3D Reconstruction of Transparent Objects With Position-Normal Consistency
2016-06-01
Estimating the shape of transparent and refractive objects is one of the few open problems in 3D reconstruction. Under the assumption that the rays refract only twice when traveling through the object, we present the first approach to simultaneously reconstructing the 3D positions and normals of the object's surface at both refraction locations. Our acquisition setup requires only two cameras and one monitor, which serves as the light source. After acquiring the ray-ray correspondences between each camera and the monitor, we solve an optimization function which enforces a new position-normal consistency constraint. That is, the 3D positions of surface points shall agree with the normals required to refract the rays under Snell's law. Experimental results using both synthetic and real data demonstrate the robustness and accuracy of the proposed approach.

302
Efficient 3D Room Shape Recovery From a Single Panorama
2016-06-01
We propose a method to recover the shape of a 3D room from a full-view indoor panorama. Our algorithm can automatically infer a 3D shape from a collection of partially oriented superpixel facets and line segments. The core part of the algorithm is a constraint graph, which includes lines and superpixels as vertices, and encodes their geometric relations as edges. A novel approach is proposed to perform 3D reconstruction based on the constraint graph by solving all the geometric constraints as constrained linear least-squares. The selected constraints used for reconstruction are identified using an occlusion detection method with a Markov random field. Experiments show that our method can recover room shapes that can not be addressed by previous approaches. Our method is also efficient, that is, the inference time for each panorama is less than 1 minute.

303
Semantically Coherent Co-Segmentation and Reconstruction of Dynamic Scenes
2017-07-01
In this paper we propose a framework for spatially and temporally coherent semantic co-segmentation and reconstruction of complex dynamic scenes from multiple static or moving cameras. Semantic co-segmentation exploits the coherence in semantic class labels both spatially, between views at a single time instant, and temporally, between widely spaced time instants of dynamic objects with similar shape and appearance. We demonstrate that semantic coherence results in improved segmentation and reconstruction for complex scenes. A joint formulation is proposed for semantically coherent object-based co-segmentation and reconstruction of scenes by enforcing consistent semantic labelling between views and over time. Semantic tracklets are introduced to enforce temporal coherence in semantic labelling and reconstruction between widely spaced instances of dynamic objects. Tracklets of dynamic objects enable unsupervised learning of appearance and shape priors that are exploited in joint segmentation and reconstruction. Evaluation on challenging indoor and outdoor sequences with hand-held moving cameras shows improved accuracy in segmentation, temporally coherent semantic labelling and 3D reconstruction of dynamic scenes.

304
Semi-Calibrated Near Field Photometric Stereo
2017-07-01
3D reconstruction from shading information through Photometric Stereo is considered a very challenging problem in Computer Vision. Although this technique can potentially provide highly detailed shape recovery, its accuracy is critically dependent on a numerous set of factors among them the reliability of the light sources in emitting a constant amount of light. In this work, we propose a novel variational approach to solve the so called semi-calibrated near field Photometric Stereo problem, where the positions but not the brightness of the light sources are known. Additionally, we take into account realistic modeling features such as perspective viewing geometry and heterogeneous scene composition, containing both diffuse and specular objects. Furthermore, we also relax the point light source assumption that usually constraints the near field formulation by explicitly calculating the light attenuation maps. Synthetic experiments are performed for quantitative evaluation for a wide range of cases whilst real experiments provide comparisons, qualitatively outperforming the state of the art.

305
A Practical Method for Fully Automatic Intrinsic Camera Calibration Using Directionally Encoded Light
2017-07-01
Calibrating the intrinsic properties of a camera is one of the fundamental tasks required for a variety of computer vision and image processing tasks. The precise measurement of focal length, location of the principal point as well as distortion parameters of the lens is crucial, for example, for 3D reconstruction. Although a variety of methods exist to achieve this goal, they are often cumbersome to carry out, require substantial manual interaction, expert knowledge, and a significant operating volume. We propose a novel calibration method based on the usage of directionally encoded light rays for estimating the intrinsic parameters. It enables a fully automatic calibration with a small device mounted close to the front lens element and still enables an accuracy comparable to standard methods even when the lens is focused up to infinity.  Our method overcomes the mentioned limitations since it guarantees an accurate calibration without any human intervention while requiring only a limited amount of space. Besides that, the approach also allows to estimate the distance of the focal plane as well as the size of the aperture. We demonstrate the advantages of the proposed method by evaluating several camera/lens configurations using prototypical devices.

306
Stereo-Based 3D Reconstruction of Dynamic Fluid Surfaces by Global Optimization
2017-07-01
3D reconstruction of dynamic fluid surfaces is an open and challenging problem in computer vision. Unlike previous approaches that reconstruct each surface point independently and often return noisy depth maps, we propose a novel global optimization-based approach that recovers both depths and normals of all 3D points simultaneously. Using the traditional refraction stereo setup, we capture the wavy appearance of a pre-generated random pattern, and then estimate the correspondences between the captured images and the known background by tracking the pattern. Assuming that the light is refracted only once through the fluid interface, we minimize an objective function that incorporates both the cross-view normal consistency constraint and the single-view normal consistency constraints. The key idea is that the normals required for light refraction based on Snell's law from one view should agree with not only the ones from the second view, but also the ones estimated from local 3D geometry. Moreover, an effective reconstruction error metric is designed for estimating the refractive index of the fluid. We report experimental results on both synthetic and real data demonstrating that the proposed approach is accurate and shows superiority over the conventional stereo-based method.

307
KillingFusion: Non-Rigid 3D Reconstruction Without Correspondences
2017-07-01
We introduce a geometry-driven approach for real-time 3D reconstruction of deforming surfaces from a single RGB-D stream without any templates or shape priors. To this end, we tackle the problem of non-rigid registration by level set evolution without explicit correspondence search. Given a pair of signed distance fields (SDFs) representing the shapes of interest, we estimate a dense deformation field that aligns them. It is defined as a displacement vector field of the same resolution as the SDFs and is determined iteratively via variational minimization. To ensure it generates plausible shapes, we propose a novel regularizer that imposes local rigidity by requiring the deformation to be a smooth and approximately Killing vector field, i.e. generating nearly isometric motions. Moreover, we enforce that the level set property of unity gradient magnitude is preserved over iterations. As a result, KillingFusion reliably reconstructs objects that are undergoing topological changes and fast inter-frame motion. In addition to incrementally building a model from scratch, our system can also deform complete surfaces. We demonstrate these capabilities on several public datasets and introduce our own sequences that permit both qualitative and quantitative comparison to related approaches.

308
Predicting Behaviors of Basketball Players From First Person Videos
2017-07-01
This paper presents a method to predict the future movements (location and gaze direction) of basketball players as a whole from their first person videos. The predicted behaviors reflect an individual physical space that affords to take the next actions while conforming to social behaviors by engaging to joint attention. Our key innovation is to use the 3D reconstruction of multiple first person cameras to automatically annotate each other's visual semantics of social configurations. We leverage two learning signals uniquely embedded in first person videos. Individually, a first person video records the visual semantics of a spatial and social layout around a person that allows associating with past similar situations. Collectively, first person videos follow joint attention that can link the individuals to a group. We learn the egocentric visual semantics of group movements using a Siamese neural network to retrieve future trajectories. We consolidate the retrieved trajectories from all players by maximizing a measure of social compatibility---the gaze alignment towards joint attention predicted by their social formation, where the dynamics of joint attention is learned by a long-term recurrent convolutional network. This allows us to characterize which social configuration is more plausible and predict future group trajectories.

309
Polarimetric Multi-View Stereo
2017-07-01
Multi-view stereo relies on feature correspondences for 3D reconstruction, and thus is fundamentally flawed in dealing with featureless scenes. In this paper, we propose polarimetric multi-view stereo, which combines per-pixel photometric information from polarization with epipolar constraints from multiple views for 3D reconstruction. Polarization reveals surface normal information, and is thus helpful to propagate depth to featureless regions. Polarimetric multi-view stereo is completely passive and can be applied outdoors in uncontrolled illumination, since the data capture can be done simply with either a polarizer or a polarization camera. Unlike previous work on shape-from-polarization which is limited to either diffuse polarization or specular polarization only, we propose a novel polarization imaging model that can handle real-world objects with mixed polarization. We prove there are exactly two types of ambiguities on estimating surface azimuth angles from polarization, and we resolve them with graph optimization and iso-depth contour tracing. This step significantly improves the initial depth map estimate, which are later fused together for complete 3D reconstruction. Extensive experimental results demonstrate high-quality 3D reconstruction and better performance than state-of-the-art multi-view stereo methods, especially on featureless 3D objects, such as ceramic tiles, office room with white walls, and highly reflective cars in the outdoors.

310
Semantic Multi-View Stereo: Jointly Estimating Objects and Voxels
2017-07-01
Dense 3D reconstruction from RGB images is a highly ill-posed problem due to occlusions, textureless or reflective surfaces, as well as other challenges. We propose object-level shape priors to address these ambiguities. Towards this goal, we formulate a probabilistic model that integrates multi-view image evidence with 3D shape information from multiple objects. Inference in this model yields a dense 3D reconstruction of the scene as well as the existence and precise 3D pose of the objects in it. Our approach is able to recover fine details not captured in the input shapes while defaulting to the input models in occluded regions where image evidence is weak. Due to its probabilistic nature, the approach is able to cope with the approximate geometry of the 3D models as well as input shapes that are not present in the scene. We evaluate the approach quantitatively on several challenging indoor and outdoor datasets. 

311
DUST: Dual Union of Spatio-Temporal Subspaces for Monocular Multiple Object 3D Reconstruction
2017-07-01
We present an approach to reconstruct the 3D shape of multiple deforming objects from incomplete 2D trajectories acquired by a single camera. Additionally, we simultaneously provide spatial segmentation (i.e., we identify each of the objects in every frame) and temporal clustering (i.e., we split the sequence into primitive actions). This advances existing work, which only tackled the  problem for  one single object and non-occluded tracks. In order to handle several objects at a time from partial observations, we model point  trajectories as a union of spatial and temporal subspaces, and optimize the parameters of both modalities,  the non-observed point tracks and the 3D shape via augmented Lagrange multipliers. The algorithm is fully unsupervised and results in a formulation which does not need initialization. We thoroughly validate the method on challenging scenarios with several human subjects performing different activities which involve complex motions and close interaction. We show our approach achieves state-of-the-art 3D reconstruction results, while it also provides spatial and temporal segmentation. 

312
Fast 3D Reconstruction of Faces With Glasses
2017-07-01
We present a method for the fast 3D face reconstruction of people wearing glasses. Our method explicitly and robustly models the case in which a face to be reconstructed is partially occluded by glasses. We propose a simple and generic model for glasses that copes with a wide variety of different shapes, colors and styles, without the need for any database or learning. Our algorithm is simple, fast and requires only small amounts of both memory and runtime resources, allowing for a fast interactive 3D reconstruction on commodity mobile phones. The thorough evaluation of our approach on synthetic and real data demonstrates superior reconstruction results due to the explicit modeling of glasses.

313
An Efficient Background Term for 3D Reconstruction and Tracking With Smooth Surface Models
2017-07-01
We present a novel strategy to shrink and constrain a 3D model, represented as a smooth spline-like surface, within the visual hull of an object observed from one or multiple views. This new 'background' or 'silhouette' term combines the efficiency of previous approaches based on an image-plane distance transform with the accuracy of formulations based on raycasting or ray potentials. The overall formulation is solved by alternating an inner nonlinear minization (raycasting) with a joint optimization of the surface geometry, the camera poses and the data correspondences. Experiments on 3D reconstruction and object tracking show that the new formulation corrects several deficiencies of existing approaches, for instance when modelling non-convex shapes. Moreover, our proposal is more robust against defects in the object segmentation and inherently handles the presence of uncertainty in the measurements (e.g. null depth values in images provided by RGB-D cameras).

314
Exploiting High Level Scene Cues in Stereo Reconstruction
2015-12-01
We present a novel approach to 3D reconstruction which is inspired by the human visual system. This system unifies standard appearance matching and triangulation techniques with higher level reasoning and scene understanding, in order to resolve ambiguities between different interpretations of the scene. The types of reasoning integrated in the approach includes recognising common configurations of surface normals and semantic edges (e.g. convex, concave and occlusion boundaries). We also recognise the coplanar, collinear and symmetric structures which are especially common in man made environments.

315
High Quality Structure From Small Motion for Rolling Shutter Cameras
2015-12-01
We present a practical 3D reconstruction method to obtain a high-quality dense depth map from narrow-baseline image sequences captured by commercial digital cameras, such as DSLRs or mobile phones. Depth estimation from small motion has gained interest as a means of various photographic editing, but important limitations present themselves in the form of depth uncertainty due to a narrow baseline and rolling shutter. To address these problems, we introduce a novel 3D reconstruction method from narrow-baseline image sequences that effectively handles the effects of a rolling shutter that occur from most of commercial digital cameras. Additionally, we present a depth propagation method to fill in the holes associated with the unknown pixels based on our novel geometric guidance model. Both qualitative and quantitative experimental results show that our new algorithm consistently generates better 3D depth maps than those by the state-of-the-art method.

316
Photogeometric Scene Flow for High-Detail Dynamic 3D Reconstruction
2015-12-01
Photometric stereo (PS) is an established technique for high-detail reconstruction of 3D geometry and appearance. To correct for surface integration errors, PS is often combined with multiview stereo (MVS). With dynamic objects, PS reconstruction also faces the problem of computing optical flow (OF) for image alignment under rapid changes in illumination. Current PS methods typically compute optical flow and MVS as independent stages, each one with its own limitations and errors introduced by early regularization. In contrast, scene flow methods estimate geometry and motion, but lack the fine detail from PS. This paper proposes photogeometric scene flow (PGSF) for high-quality dynamic 3D reconstruction. PGSF performs PS, OF, and MVS simultaneously. It is based on two key observations: (i) while image alignment improves PS, PS allows for surfaces to be relit to improve alignment; (ii) PS provides surface gradients that render the smoothness term in MVS unnecessary, leading to truly data-driven, continuous depth estimates. This synergy is demonstrated in the quality of the resulting RGB appearance, 3D geometry, and 3D motion.

317
Massively Parallel Multiview Stereopsis by Surface Normal Diffusion
2015-12-01
We present a new, massively parallel method for high-quality multiview matching. Our work builds on the Patchmatch idea: starting from randomly generated 3D planes in scene space, the best-fitting planes are iteratively propagated and refined to obtain a 3D depth and normal field per view, such that a robust photo-consistency measure over all images is maximized. Our main novelties are on the one hand to formulate Patchmatch in scene space, which makes it possible to aggregate image similarity across multiple views and obtain more accurate depth maps. And on the other hand a modified, diffusion-like propagation scheme that can be massively parallelized and delivers dense multiview correspondence over ten 1.9-Megapixel images in 3 seconds, on a consumer-grade GPU. Our method uses a slanted support window and thus has no fronto-parallel bias; it is completely local and parallel, such that computation time scales linearly with image size, and inversely proportional to the number of parallel threads. Furthermore, it has low memory footprint (four values per pixel, independent of the depth range). It therefore scales exceptionally well and can handle multiple large images at high depth resolution. Experiments on the DTU and Middlebury multiview datasets as well as oblique aerial images show that our method achieves very competitive results with high accuracy and completeness, across a range of different scenarios. 

318
Direct, Dense, and Deformable: Template-Based Non-Rigid 3D Reconstruction From RGB Video
2015-12-01
In this paper we tackle the problem of capturing the dense, detailed 3D geometry of generic, complex non-rigid meshes using a single RGB-only commodity video camera and a direct approach.  While robust and even real-time solutions exist to this problem  if the observed scene is static, for non-rigid dense shape capture current systems are typically restricted to the use of complex multi-camera rigs, take advantage of the additional depth channel available in RGB-D cameras, or deal with specific shapes such as faces or planar surfaces. In contrast, our method makes use of a single RGB video as input; it can capture the deformations of generic shapes; and the depth estimation is dense, per-pixel and direct.  We first compute a dense 3D template of the shape of the object, using a short rigid sequence, and subsequently perform online reconstruction of the non-rigid mesh as it evolves over time.  Our energy optimization approach minimizes a robust photometric cost that simultaneously  estimates the temporal correspondences and 3D deformations with respect to the template mesh. In our experimental evaluation we show a range of qualitative results on novel datasets; we compare against an existing method that requires multi-frame optical flow; and perform a quantitative evaluation against other template-based approaches on a ground truth dataset.  

319
Structure From Motion Using Structure-Less Resection
2015-12-01
This paper proposes a new incremental structure from motion (SfM) algorithm based on a novel structure-less camera resection technique. Traditional methods rely on 2D-3D correspondences to compute the pose of candidate cameras using PnP.  In this work, we take the collection of already reconstructed cameras as a generalized camera, and  determine the absolute pose of a candidate pinhole camera from pure 2D correspondences, which we call it  semi-generalized camera pose problem. We present the minimal solvers of the new problem for both calibrated and partially calibrated (unknown focal length) pinhole cameras. By integrating these new algorithms in an incremental SfM system, we go beyond the state-of-art methods with the capability of reconstructing cameras without 2D-3D correspondences.  Large-scale real image experiments show that our new SfM system significantly improves the completeness of 3D reconstruction over the standard approach.

320
Exploiting Object Similarity in 3D Reconstruction
2015-12-01
Despite recent progress, reconstructing outdoor scenes in 3D from movable platforms remains a highly difficult endeavour. Challenges include low frame rates, occlusions, large distortions and difficult lighting conditions. In this paper, we leverage the fact that the larger the reconstructed area, the more likely objects of similar type and shape will occur in the scene. This is particularly true for outdoor scenes where buildings and vehicles often suffer from missing texture or reflections, but share similarity in 3D shape. We take advantage of this shape similarity by localizing objects using detectors and jointly reconstructing them while learning a volumetric model of their shape. This allows us to reduce noise while completing missing surfaces as objects of similar shape benefit from all observations for the respective category. We evaluate our approach with respect to LIDAR ground truth on a novel challenging suburban dataset and show its advantages over the state-of-the-art.

321
Towards Pointless Structure From Motion: 3D Reconstruction and Camera Parameters From General 3D Curves
2015-12-01
Modern structure from motion (SfM) remains dependent on point features to recover camera positions, meaning that reconstruction is severely hampered in low-texture environments, for example scanning a plain coffee cup on an uncluttered table.  We show how 3D curves can be used to refine camera position estimation in challenging low-texture scenes.  In contrast to previous work, we allow the curves to be partially observed in all images, meaning that for the first time, curve-based SfM can be demonstrated in realistic scenes.  The algorithm is based on bundle adjustment, so needs an initial estimate, but even a poor estimate from a few point correspondences can be substantially improved by including curves, suggesting that this method would benefit many existing systems.

322
Polarized 3D: High-Quality Depth Sensing With Polarization Cues
2015-12-01
Coarse depth maps can be enhanced by using the shape information from polarization cues. We propose a framework to combine surface normals from polarization (hereafter polarization normals) with an aligned depth map. Polarization normals have not been used for depth enhancement before. This is because polarization normals suffer from physics-based artifacts, such as azimuthal ambiguity, refractive distortion and fronto-parallel signal degradation. We propose a framework to overcome these key challenges, allowing the benefits of polarization to be used to enhance depth maps. Our results demonstrate improvement with respect to state-of-the-art 3D reconstruction techniques.

323
Photometric Stereo in a Scattering Medium
2015-12-01
Photometric stereo is widely used for 3D reconstruction. However, its use in scattering media such as water, biological tissue and fog has been limited until now, because of forward scattered light from both the source and object, as well as light scattered back from the medium (backscatter). Here we make three contributions to address the key modes of light propagation, under the common single scattering assumption for dilute media. First, we show through extensive simulations that single-scattered light from a source can be approximated by a point light source with a single direction. This alleviates the need to handle light source blur explicitly. Next, we model the blur due to scattering of light from the object. We measure the object point-spread function and introduce a simple deconvolution method. Finally, we show how imaging fluorescence emission where available, eliminates the backscatter component and increases the signal-to-noise ratio. Experimental results in a water tank, with different concentrations of scattering media added, show that deconvolution produces higher-quality 3D reconstructions than previous techniques, and that when combined with fluorescence, can produce results similar to that in clear water even for highly turbid media.

324
Oriented Light-Field Windows for Scene Flow
2015-12-01
2D spatial image windows are used for comparing pixel values in computer vision applications such as correspondence for optical flow and 3D reconstruction, bilateral filtering, and image segmentation. However, pixel window comparisons can suffer from varying defocus blur and perspective at different depths, and can also lead to a loss of precision. In this paper, we leverage the recent use of light-field cameras to propose alternative - oriented light-field windows that enable more robust and accurate pixel comparisons. For Lambertian surfaces focused to the correct depth, the 2D distribution of angular rays from a pixel remains consistent. We build on this idea to develop an oriented 4D light-field window that accounts for shearing (depth), translation (matching), and windowing. Our main application is to scene flow, a generalization of optical flow to the 3D vector field describing the motion of each point in the scene. We show significant benefits of oriented light-field windows over standard 2D spatial windows. We also demonstrate additional applications of oriented light-field windows for bilateral filtering and image segmentation.

325
Sparse Dynamic 3D Reconstruction From Unsynchronized Videos
2015-12-01
We target the sparse 3D reconstruction of dynamic objects observed by multiple unsynchronized video cameras with unknown temporal overlap. To this end, we develop a framework to recover the unknown structure without sequencing information across video sequences. Our proposed compressed sensing framework poses the estimation of 3D structure as the problem of dictionary learning. Moreover, we define our dictionary as the temporally varying 3D structure, while we define local sequencing information in terms of the sparse coefficients describing a locally linear 3D structural interpolation. Our formulation optimizes a biconvex cost function that leverages a compressed sensing formulation and enforces both structural dependency coherence across video streams, as well as motion smoothness across estimates from common video sources. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in both synthetic data and captured imagery.

326
Corner-Based Geometric Calibration of Multi-Focus Plenoptic Cameras
2017-10-01
We propose a method for geometric calibration of multi-focus plenoptic cameras using raw images. Multi-focus plenoptic cameras feature several types of micro-lenses spatially aligned in front of the camera sensor to generate micro-images at different magnifications. This multi-lens arrangement provides computational-photography benefits but complicates calibration. Our methodology achieves the detection of the type of micro-lenses, the retrieval of their spatial arrangement, and the estimation of intrinsic and extrinsic camera parameters therefore fully characterising this specialised camera class. Motivated from classic pinhole camera calibration, the presented algorithm operates based on a checker-board's corners, retrieved by a custom micro-image corner detector. This approach enables the introduction of a re-projection error that is used in a minimisation framework. Our algorithm compares favourably to the state-of-the-art, as demonstrated by controlled and free-hand experiments, making it a first step towards accurate 3D reconstruction and Structure-from-Motion.

327
3D Surface Detail Enhancement From a Single Normal Map
2017-10-01
In 3D reconstruction, the obtained surface details are mainly limited to the visual sensor due to sampling and quantization in the digitalization process. How to get a fine-grained 3D surface with low-cost is still a challenging obstacle in terms of experience, equipment and easy-to-obtain. This work introduces a novel framework for enhancing surfaces reconstructed from normal map, where the assumptions on hardware (e.g., photometric stereo setup) and reflection model (e.g., Lambertion reflection) are not necessarily needed. We propose to use a new measure, angle profile, to infer the hidden micro-structure from existing surfaces. In addition, the inferred results are further improved in the domain of discrete geometry processing (DGP) which is able to achieve a stable surface structure under a selectable enhancement setting. Extensive simulation results show that the proposed method obtains significantly improvements over uniform sharpening method in terms of both subjective visual assessment and objective quality metric.

328
Multi-View Non-Rigid Refinement and Normal Selection for High Quality 3D Reconstruction
2017-10-01
In recent years, there have been a variety of proposals for high quality 3D reconstruction by fusion of depth and normal maps that contain good low and high frequency information respectively. Typically, these methods create an initial mesh representation of the complete object or scene being scanned. Subsequently, normal estimates are assigned to each mesh vertex and a mesh-normal fusion step is carried out. In this paper, we present a complete pipeline for such depth-normal fusion. The key innovations in our pipeline are twofold. Firstly, we introduce a global multi-view non-rigid refinement step that corrects for the non-rigid misalignment present in the depth and normal maps. We demonstrate that such a correction is crucial for preserving fine-scale 3D features in the final reconstruction. Secondly, despite adequate care, the averaging of multiple normals invariably results in blurring of 3D detail. To mitigate this problem, we propose an approach that selects one out of many available normals. Our global cost for normal selection incorporates a variety of desirable properties and can be efficiently solved using graph cuts. We demonstrate the efficacy of our approach in generating high quality 3D reconstructions of both synthetic and real 3D models and compare with existing methods in the literature.

329
Probabilistic Structure From Motion With Objects (PSfMO)
2017-10-01
In this paper we deal with the problem of recovering affine camera calibration and objects position/occupancy from multi-view images using the information from image detections. We show that remarkable object localisation and volumetric occupancy can be recovered by including both geometrical constraints and prior information given by objects CAD models from the ShapeNet dataset. This can be done by recasting the problem in the context of a probabilistic framework based on Probabilistic PCA that includes both the object semantic priors together with the multi-view geometrical constraints. We present results on synthetic and real datasets to show the validity of our approach and improvements with respect to previous approaches. In particular, the statistical priors are key to obtain reliable 3D reconstruction especially when the input detections are noisy, a likely case in real scenarios.

330
From Point Clouds to Mesh Using Regression
2017-10-01
Surface reconstruction from a point cloud is a standard subproblem in many algorithms for dense 3D reconstruction from RGB images or depth maps. Methods, performing only local operations in the vicinity of individual points, are very fast, but reconstructed models typically contain lots of visually unpleasant holes. On the other hand, regularized volumetric approaches, formulated as a global optimization, are typically too slow for real-time interactive applications. We propose to use a regression forest based method, which predicts the projection of a grid point to the surface, depending on the spatial configuration of point density in the grid point neighborhood. We designed a suitable feature vector and efficient oct-tree based GPU evaluation, capable of predicting surface of high resolution 3D models in milliseconds. Our method learns and predicts surfaces from an observed point cloud sparser than the evaluation grid, and therefore effectively acts as a regularizer.

331
Deltille Grids for Geometric Camera Calibration
2017-10-01
The recent proliferation of high resolution cameras presents an opportunity to achieve unprecedented levels of precision in visual 3D reconstruction. Yet the camera calibration pipeline, developed decades ago using checkerboards, has remained the de facto standard. In this paper, we ask the question: are checkerboards the optimal pattern for high precision calibration? We empirically demonstrate that deltille grids (regular triangular tiling) produce the highest precision calibration of the possible tilings of Euclidean plane. We posit that they should be the new standard for high-precision calibration and present a complete ecosystem for calibration using deltille grids including: (1) a highly precise corner detection algorithm based on polynomial surface fitting; (2) an indexing scheme based on polarities extracted from the fitted surfaces; and (3) a 2D coding system for deltille grids, which we refer to as DelTags, in lieu of conventional matrix barcodes. We demonstrate state-of-the-art performance and apply the full calibration ecosystem through the use of 3D calibration objects for multiview camera calibration.

332
Pix2Vox: Context-aware 3D Reconstruction from Single and Multi-view Images
2019-01-31
Recovering the 3D representation of an object from single-view or multi-view RGB images by deep neural networks has attracted increasing attention in the past few years. Several mainstream works (e.g., 3D-R2N2) use recurrent neural networks (RNNs) to fuse multiple feature maps extracted from input images sequentially. However, when given the same set of input images with different orders, RNN-based approaches are unable to produce consistent reconstruction results. Moreover, due to long-term memory loss, RNNs cannot fully exploit input images to refine reconstruction results. To solve these problems, we propose a novel framework for single-view and multi-view 3D reconstruction, named Pix2Vox. By using a well-designed encoder-decoder, it generates a coarse 3D volume from each input image. Then, a context-aware fusion module is introduced to adaptively select high-quality reconstructions for each part (e.g., table legs) from different coarse 3D volumes to obtain a fused 3D volume. Finally, a refiner further refines the fused 3D volume to generate the final output. Experimental results on the ShapeNet and Pix3D benchmarks indicate that the proposed Pix2Vox outperforms state-of-the-arts by a large margin. Furthermore, the proposed method is 24 times faster than 3D-R2N2 in terms of backward inference time. The experiments on ShapeNet unseen 3D categories have shown the superior generalization abilities of our method.

333
A New Framework for Sign Language Recognition based on 3D Handshape Identification and Linguistic Modeling
2014-05-01
Current approaches to sign recognition by computer generally have at least some of the following limitations: they rely on laboratory conditions for sign production, are limited to a small vocabulary, rely on 2D modeling (and therefore cannot deal with occlusions and off-plane rotations), and/or achieve limited success. Here we propose a new framework that (1) provides a new tracking method less dependent than others on laboratory conditions and able to deal with variations in background and skin regions (such as the face, forearms, or other hands); (2) allows for identification of 3D hand configurations that are linguistically important in American Sign Language (ASL); and (3) incorporates statistical information reflecting linguistic constraints in sign production. For purposes of large-scale computer-based sign language recognition from video, the ability to distinguish hand configurations accurately is critical. Our current method estimates the 3D hand configuration to distinguish among 77 hand configurations linguistically relevant for ASL. Constraining the problem in this way makes recognition of 3D hand configuration more tractable and provides the information specifically needed for sign recognition. Further improvements are obtained by incorporation of statistical information about linguistic dependencies among handshapes within a sign derived from an annotated corpus of almost 10,000 sign tokens.

334
Single-Image Piece-wise Planar 3D Reconstruction via Associative Embedding
2019-02-26
Single-image piece-wise planar 3D reconstruction aims to simultaneously
segment plane instances and recover 3D plane parameters from an image. Most
recent approaches leverage convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and achieve
promising results. However, these methods are limited to detecting a fixed
number of planes with certain learned order. To tackle this problem, we propose
a novel two-stage method based on associative embedding, inspired by its recent
success in instance segmentation. In the first stage, we train a CNN to map
each pixel to an embedding space where pixels from the same plane instance have
similar embeddings. Then, the plane instances are obtained by grouping the
embedding vectors in planar regions via an efficient mean shift clustering
algorithm. In the second stage, we estimate the parameter for each plane
instance by considering both pixel-level and instance-level consistencies. With
the proposed method, we are able to detect an arbitrary number of planes.
Extensive experiments on public datasets validate the effectiveness and
efficiency of our method. Furthermore, our method runs at 30 fps at the testing
time, thus could facilitate many real-time applications such as visual SLAM and
human-robot interaction. Code is available at
https://github.com/svip-lab/PlanarReconstruction.

335
Incremental Visual-Inertial 3D Mesh Generation with Structural Regularities
2019-03-04
Visual-Inertial Odometry (VIO) algorithms typically rely on a point cloud representation of the scene that does not model the topology of the environment. A 3D mesh instead offers a richer, yet lightweight, model. Nevertheless, building a 3D mesh out of the sparse and noisy 3D landmarks triangulated by a VIO algorithm often results in a mesh that does not fit the real scene. In order to regularize the mesh, previous approaches decouple state estimation from the 3D mesh regularization step, and either limit the 3D mesh to the current frame or let the mesh grow indefinitely. We propose instead to tightly couple mesh regularization and state estimation by detecting and enforcing structural regularities in a novel factor-graph formulation. We also propose to incrementally build the mesh by restricting its extent to the time-horizon of the VIO optimization; the resulting 3D mesh covers a larger portion of the scene than a per-frame approach while its memory usage and computational complexity remain bounded. We show that our approach successfully regularizes the mesh, while improving localization accuracy, when structural regularities are present, and remains operational in scenes without regularities.

336
X-Section: Cross-Section Prediction for Enhanced RGBD Fusion
2019-03-03
Detailed 3D reconstruction is an important challenge with application to robotics, augmented and virtual reality, which has seen impressive progress throughout the past years. Advancements were driven by the availability of depth cameras (RGB-D), as well as increased compute power, e.g.\ in the form of GPUs -- but also thanks to inclusion of machine learning in the process. Here, we propose X-Section, an RGB-D 3D reconstruction approach that leverages deep learning to make object-level predictions about thicknesses that can be readily integrated into a volumetric multi-view fusion process, where we propose an extension to the popular KinectFusion approach. In essence, our method allows to complete shape in general indoor scenes behind what is sensed by the RGB-D camera, which may be crucial e.g.\ for robotic manipulation tasks or efficient scene exploration. Predicting object thicknesses rather than volumes allows us to work with comparably high spatial resolution without exploding memory and training data requirements on the employed Convolutional Neural Networks. In a series of qualitative and quantitative evaluations, we demonstrate how we accurately predict object thickness and reconstruct general 3D scenes containing multiple objects.

337
Synthetic Human Model Dataset for Skeleton Driven Non-rigid Motion Tracking and 3D Reconstruction
2019-03-07
We introduce a synthetic dataset for evaluating non-rigid 3D human
reconstruction based on conventional RGB-D cameras. The dataset consist of
seven motion sequences of a single human model. For each motion sequence
per-frame ground truth geometry and ground truth skeleton are given. The
dataset also contains skinning weights of the human model. More information
about the dataset can be found at:
https://research.csiro.au/robotics/our-work/databases/synthetic-human-model-dataset/

338
Rolling-Shutter-Aware Differential SfM and Image Rectification
2019-03-10
In this paper, we develop a modified differential Structure from Motion (SfM) algorithm that can estimate relative pose from two consecutive frames despite of Rolling Shutter (RS) artifacts. In particular, we show that under constant velocity assumption, the errors induced by the rolling shutter effect can be easily rectified by a linear scaling operation on each optical flow. We further propose a 9-point algorithm to recover the relative pose of a rolling shutter camera that undergoes constant acceleration motion. We demonstrate that the dense depth maps recovered from the relative pose of the RS camera can be used in a RS-aware warping for image rectification to recover high-quality Global Shutter (GS) images. Experiments on both synthetic and real RS images show that our RS-aware differential SfM algorithm produces more accurate results on relative pose estimation and 3D reconstruction from images distorted by RS effect compared to standard SfM algorithms that assume a GS camera model. We also demonstrate that our RS-aware warping for image rectification method outperforms state-of-the-art commercial software products, i.e. Adobe After Effects and Apple Imovie, at removing RS artifacts.

339
Live Reconstruction of Large-Scale Dynamic Outdoor Worlds
2019-03-15
Standard 3D reconstruction pipelines assume stationary world, therefore
suffer from `ghost artifacts' whenever dynamic objects are present in the
scene. Recent approaches has started tackling this issue, however, they
typically either only discard dynamic information, represent it using bounding
boxes or per-frame depth or rely on approaches that are inherently slow and not
suitable to online settings.
  We propose an end-to-end system for live reconstruction of large-scale
outdoor dynamic environments. We leverage recent advances in computationally
efficient data-driven approaches for 6-DoF object pose estimation to segment
the scene into objects and stationary `background'. This allows us to represent
the scene using a time-dependent (dynamic) map, in which each object is
explicitly represented as a separate instance and reconstructed in its own
volume. For each time step, our dynamic map maintains a relative pose of each
volume with respect to the stationary background. Our system operates in
incremental manner which is essential for on-line reconstruction, handles
large-scale environments with objects at large distances and runs in (near)
real-time. We demonstrate the efficacy of our approach on the KITTI dataset,
and provide qualitative and quantitative results showing high-quality dense 3D
reconstructions of a number of dynamic scenes.

340
Photometric Mesh Optimization for Video-Aligned 3D Object Reconstruction
2019-03-20
In this paper, we address the problem of 3D object mesh reconstruction from
RGB videos. Our approach combines the best of multi-view geometric and
data-driven methods for 3D reconstruction by optimizing object meshes for
multi-view photometric consistency while constraining mesh deformations with a
shape prior. We pose this as a piecewise image alignment problem for each mesh
face projection. Our approach allows us to update shape parameters from the
photometric error without any depth or mask information. Moreover, we show how
to avoid a degeneracy of zero photometric gradients via rasterizing from a
virtual viewpoint. We demonstrate 3D object mesh reconstruction results from
both synthetic and real-world videos with our photometric mesh optimization,
which is unachievable with either na\"ive mesh generation networks or
traditional pipelines of surface reconstruction without heavy manual
post-processing.

341
Sparse2Dense: From direct sparse odometry to dense 3D reconstruction
2019-03-21
In this paper, we proposed a new deep learning based dense monocular SLAM
method. Compared to existing methods, the proposed framework constructs a dense
3D model via a sparse to dense mapping using learned surface normals. With
single view learned depth estimation as prior for monocular visual odometry, we
obtain both accurate positioning and high quality depth reconstruction. The
depth and normal are predicted by a single network trained in a tightly coupled
manner.Experimental results show that our method significantly improves the
performance of visual tracking and depth prediction in comparison to the
state-of-the-art in deep monocular dense SLAM.

342
PLMP -- Point-Line Minimal Problems in Complete Multi-View Visibility
2019-03-24
We present a complete classification of all minimal problems for generic arrangements of points and lines completely observed by calibrated perspective cameras. We show that there are only 30 minimal problems in total, no problems exist for more than 6 cameras, for more than 5 points, and for more than 6 lines. We present a sequence of tests for detecting minimality starting with counting degrees of freedom and ending with full symbolic and numeric verification of representative examples. For all minimal problems discovered, we present their algebraic degrees, i.e. the number of solutions, which measure their intrinsic difficulty. It shows how exactly the difficulty of problems grows with the number of views. Importantly, several new minimal problems have small degrees that might be practical in image matching and 3D reconstruction.

343
Accurate Monocular Object Detection via Color-Embedded 3D Reconstruction for Autonomous Driving
2019-03-27
In this paper, we propose a monocular 3D object detection framework in the domain of autonomous driving. Unlike previous image-based methods which focus on RGB feature extracted from 2D images, our method solves this problem in the reconstructed 3D space in order to exploit 3D contexts explicitly. To this end, we first leverage a stand-alone module to transform the input data from 2D image plane to 3D point clouds space for a better input representation, then we perform the 3D detection using PointNet backbone net to obtain objects 3D locations, dimensions and orientations. To enhance the discriminative capability of point clouds, we propose a multi-modal feature fusion module to embed the complementary RGB cue into the generated point clouds representation. We argue that it is more effective to infer the 3D bounding boxes from the generated 3D scene space (i.e., X,Y, Z space) compared to the image plane (i.e., R,G,B image plane). Evaluation on the challenging KITTI dataset shows that our approach boosts the performance of state-of-the-art monocular approach by a large margin.

344
Defogging Kinect: Simultaneous Estimation of Object Region and Depth in Foggy Scenes
2019-04-01
Three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction and scene depth estimation from
2-dimensional (2D) images are major tasks in computer vision. However, using
conventional 3D reconstruction techniques gets challenging in participating
media such as murky water, fog, or smoke. We have developed a method that uses
a time-of-flight (ToF) camera to estimate an object region and depth in
participating media simultaneously. The scattering component is saturated, so
it does not depend on the scene depth, and received signals bouncing off
distant points are negligible due to light attenuation in the participating
media, so the observation of such a point contains only a scattering component.
These phenomena enable us to estimate the scattering component in an object
region from a background that only contains the scattering component. The
problem is formulated as robust estimation where the object region is regarded
as outliers, and it enables the simultaneous estimation of an object region and
depth on the basis of an iteratively reweighted least squares (IRLS)
optimization scheme. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method
using captured images from a Kinect v2 in real foggy scenes and evaluate the
applicability with synthesized data.

345
StereoDRNet: Dilated Residual Stereo Net
2019-04-03
We propose a system that uses a convolution neural network (CNN) to estimate depth from a stereo pair followed by volumetric fusion of the predicted depth maps to produce a 3D reconstruction of a scene. Our proposed depth refinement architecture, predicts view-consistent disparity and occlusion maps that helps the fusion system to produce geometrically consistent reconstructions. We utilize 3D dilated convolutions in our proposed cost filtering network that yields better filtering while almost halving the computational cost in comparison to state of the art cost filtering architectures.For feature extraction we use the Vortex Pooling architecture. The proposed method achieves state of the art results in KITTI 2012, KITTI 2015 and ETH 3D stereo benchmarks. Finally, we demonstrate that our system is able to produce high fidelity 3D scene reconstructions that outperforms the state of the art stereo system.

346
Neural Rerendering in the Wild
2019-04-08
We explore total scene capture -- recording, modeling, and rerendering a
scene under varying appearance such as season and time of day. Starting from
internet photos of a tourist landmark, we apply traditional 3D reconstruction
to register the photos and approximate the scene as a point cloud. For each
photo, we render the scene points into a deep framebuffer, and train a neural
network to learn the mapping of these initial renderings to the actual photos.
This rerendering network also takes as input a latent appearance vector and a
semantic mask indicating the location of transient objects like pedestrians.
The model is evaluated on several datasets of publicly available images
spanning a broad range of illumination conditions. We create short videos
demonstrating realistic manipulation of the image viewpoint, appearance, and
semantic labeling. We also compare results with prior work on scene
reconstruction from internet photos.

347
Expressive Body Capture: 3D Hands, Face, and Body from a Single Image
2019-04-11
To facilitate the analysis of human actions, interactions and emotions, we
compute a 3D model of human body pose, hand pose, and facial expression from a
single monocular image. To achieve this, we use thousands of 3D scans to train
a new, unified, 3D model of the human body, SMPL-X, that extends SMPL with
fully articulated hands and an expressive face. Learning to regress the
parameters of SMPL-X directly from images is challenging without paired images
and 3D ground truth. Consequently, we follow the approach of SMPLify, which
estimates 2D features and then optimizes model parameters to fit the features.
We improve on SMPLify in several significant ways: (1) we detect 2D features
corresponding to the face, hands, and feet and fit the full SMPL-X model to
these; (2) we train a new neural network pose prior using a large MoCap
dataset; (3) we define a new interpenetration penalty that is both fast and
accurate; (4) we automatically detect gender and the appropriate body models
(male, female, or neutral); (5) our PyTorch implementation achieves a speedup
of more than 8x over Chumpy. We use the new method, SMPLify-X, to fit SMPL-X to
both controlled images and images in the wild. We evaluate 3D accuracy on a new
curated dataset comprising 100 images with pseudo ground-truth. This is a step
towards automatic expressive human capture from monocular RGB data. The models,
code, and data are available for research purposes at
https://smpl-x.is.tue.mpg.de.

348
Conditional Single-view Shape Generation for Multi-view Stereo Reconstruction
2019-04-14
In this paper, we present a new perspective towards image-based shape
generation. Most existing deep learning based shape reconstruction methods
employ a single-view deterministic model which is sometimes insufficient to
determine a single groundtruth shape because the back part is occluded. In this
work, we first introduce a conditional generative network to model the
uncertainty for single-view reconstruction. Then, we formulate the task of
multi-view reconstruction as taking the intersection of the predicted shape
spaces on each single image. We design new differentiable guidance including
the front constraint, the diversity constraint, and the consistency loss to
enable effective single-view conditional generation and multi-view synthesis.
Experimental results and ablation studies show that our proposed approach
outperforms state-of-the-art methods on 3D reconstruction test error and
demonstrate its generalization ability on real world data.

349
Transformable Bottleneck Networks
2019-04-13
We propose a novel approach to performing fine-grained 3D manipulation of image content via a convolutional neural network, which we call the Transformable Bottleneck Network (TBN). It applies given spatial transformations directly to a volumetric bottleneck within our encoder-bottleneck-decoder architecture. Multi-view supervision encourages the network to learn to spatially disentangle the feature space within the bottleneck. The resulting spatial structure can be manipulated with arbitrary spatial transformations. We demonstrate the efficacy of TBNs for novel view synthesis, achieving state-of-the-art results on a challenging benchmark. We demonstrate that the bottlenecks produced by networks trained for this task contain meaningful spatial structure that allows us to intuitively perform a variety of image manipulations in 3D, well beyond the rigid transformations seen during training. These manipulations include non-uniform scaling, non-rigid warping, and combining content from different images. Finally, we extract explicit 3D structure from the bottleneck, performing impressive 3D reconstruction from a single input image.

350
IsMo-GAN: Adversarial Learning for Monocular Non-Rigid 3D Reconstruction
2019-04-27
The majority of the existing methods for non-rigid 3D surface regression from monocular 2D images require an object template or point tracks over multiple frames as an input, and are still far from real-time processing rates. In this work, we present the Isometry-Aware Monocular Generative Adversarial Network (IsMo-GAN) - an approach for direct 3D reconstruction from a single image, trained for the deformation model in an adversarial manner on a light-weight synthetic dataset. IsMo-GAN reconstructs surfaces from real images under varying illumination, camera poses, textures and shading at over 250 Hz. In multiple experiments, it consistently outperforms several approaches in the reconstruction accuracy, runtime, generalisation to unknown surfaces and robustness to occlusions. In comparison to the state-of-the-art, we reduce the reconstruction error by 10-30% including the textureless case and our surfaces evince fewer artefacts qualitatively.

351
RevealNet: Seeing Behind Objects in RGB-D Scans
2019-04-26
During 3D reconstruction, it is often the case that people cannot scan each individual object from all views, resulting in missing geometry in the captured scan. This missing geometry can be fundamentally limiting for many applications, e.g., a robot needs to know the unseen geometry to perform a precise grasp on an object. Thus, we introduce the task of semantic instance completion: from an incomplete RGB-D scan of a scene, we aim to detect the individual object instances and infer their complete object geometry. This will open up new possibilities for interactions with objects in a scene, for instance for virtual or robotic agents. We tackle this problem by introducing RevealNet, a new data-driven approach that jointly detects object instances and predicts their complete geometry. This enables a semantically meaningful decomposition of a scanned scene into individual, complete 3D objects, including hidden and unobserved object parts. RevealNet is an end-to-end 3D neural network architecture that leverages joint color and geometry feature learning. The fully-convolutional nature of our 3D network enables efficient inference of semantic instance completion for 3D scans at scale of large indoor environments in a single forward pass. We show that predicting complete object geometry improves both 3D detection and instance segmentation performance. We evaluate on both real and synthetic scan benchmark data for the new task, where we outperform state-of-the-art approaches by over 15 in mAP@0.5 on ScanNet, and over 18 in mAP@0.5 on SUNCG.

352
Learning Character-Agnostic Motion for Motion Retargeting in 2D
2019-05-05
Analyzing human motion is a challenging task with a wide variety of applications in computer vision and in graphics. One such application, of particular importance in computer animation, is the retargeting of motion from one performer to another. While humans move in three dimensions, the vast majority of human motions are captured using video, requiring 2D-to-3D pose and camera recovery, before existing retargeting approaches may be applied. In this paper, we present a new method for retargeting video-captured motion between different human performers, without the need to explicitly reconstruct 3D poses and/or camera parameters. In order to achieve our goal, we learn to extract, directly from a video, a high-level latent motion representation, which is invariant to the skeleton geometry and the camera view. Our key idea is to train a deep neural network to decompose temporal sequences of 2D poses into three components: motion, skeleton, and camera view-angle. Having extracted such a representation, we are able to re-combine motion with novel skeletons and camera views, and decode a retargeted temporal sequence, which we compare to a ground truth from a synthetic dataset. We demonstrate that our framework can be used to robustly extract human motion from videos, bypassing 3D reconstruction, and outperforming existing retargeting methods, when applied to videos in-the-wild. It also enables additional applications, such as performance cloning, video-driven cartoons, and motion retrieval.

353
Single Image 3D Hand Reconstruction with Mesh Convolutions
2019-05-04
Monocular 3D reconstruction of deformable objects, such as human body parts, has been typically approached by predicting parameters of heavyweight linear models. In this paper, we demonstrate an alternative solution that is based on the idea of encoding images into a latent non-linear representation of meshes. The prior on 3D hand shapes is learned by training an autoencoder with intrinsic graph convolutions performed in the spectral domain. The pre-trained decoder acts as a non-linear statistical deformable model. The latent parameters that reconstruct the shape and articulated pose of hands in the image are predicted using an image encoder. We show that our system reconstructs plausible meshes and operates in real-time. We evaluate the quality of the mesh reconstructions produced by the decoder on a new dataset and show latent space interpolation results. Our code, data, and models will be made publicly available.

354
Endoscopy artifact detection (EAD 2019) challenge dataset
2019-05-08
Endoscopic artifacts are a core challenge in facilitating the diagnosis and treatment of diseases in hollow organs. Precise detection of specific artifacts like pixel saturations, motion blur, specular reflections, bubbles and debris is essential for high-quality frame restoration and is crucial for realizing reliable computer-assisted tools for improved patient care. At present most videos in endoscopy are currently not analyzed due to the abundant presence of multi-class artifacts in video frames. Through the endoscopic artifact detection (EAD 2019) challenge, we address this key bottleneck problem by solving the accurate identification and localization of endoscopic frame artifacts to enable further key quantitative analysis of unusable video frames such as mosaicking and 3D reconstruction which is crucial for delivering improved patient care. This paper summarizes the challenge tasks and describes the dataset and evaluation criteria established in the EAD 2019 challenge.

355
D2-Net: A Trainable CNN for Joint Detection and Description of Local Features
2019-05-09
In this work we address the problem of finding reliable pixel-level correspondences under difficult imaging conditions. We propose an approach where a single convolutional neural network plays a dual role: It is simultaneously a dense feature descriptor and a feature detector. By postponing the detection to a later stage, the obtained keypoints are more stable than their traditional counterparts based on early detection of low-level structures. We show that this model can be trained using pixel correspondences extracted from readily available large-scale SfM reconstructions, without any further annotations. The proposed method obtains state-of-the-art performance on both the difficult Aachen Day-Night localization dataset and the InLoc indoor localization benchmark, as well as competitive performance on other benchmarks for image matching and 3D reconstruction.

356
What Do Single-view 3D Reconstruction Networks Learn?
2019-05-09
Convolutional networks for single-view object reconstruction have shown impressive performance and have become a popular subject of research. All existing techniques are united by the idea of having an encoder-decoder network that performs non-trivial reasoning about the 3D structure of the output space. In this work, we set up two alternative approaches that perform image classification and retrieval respectively. These simple baselines yield better results than state-of-the-art methods, both qualitatively and quantitatively. We show that encoder-decoder methods are statistically indistinguishable from these baselines, thus indicating that the current state of the art in single-view object reconstruction does not actually perform reconstruction but image classification. We identify aspects of popular experimental procedures that elicit this behavior and discuss ways to improve the current state of research.

357
On the Detection of Mutual Influences and Their Consideration in Reinforcement Learning Processes
2019-05-10
Self-adaptation has been proposed as a mechanism to counter complexity in control problems of technical systems. A major driver behind self-adaptation is the idea to transfer traditional design-time decisions to runtime and into the responsibility of systems themselves. In order to deal with unforeseen events and conditions, systems need creativity -- typically realized by means of machine learning capabilities. Such learning mechanisms are based on different sources of knowledge. Feedback from the environment used for reinforcement purposes is probably the most prominent one within the self-adapting and self-organizing (SASO) systems community. However, the impact of other (sub-)systems on the success of the individual system's learning performance has mostly been neglected in this context. In this article, we propose a novel methodology to identify effects of actions performed by other systems in a shared environment on the utility achievement of an autonomous system. Consider smart cameras (SC) as illustrating example: For goals such as 3D reconstruction of objects, the most promising configuration of one SC in terms of pan/tilt/zoom parameters depends largely on the configuration of other SCs in the vicinity. Since such mutual influences cannot be pre-defined for dynamic systems, they have to be learned at runtime. Furthermore, they have to be taken into consideration when self-improving the own configuration decisions based on a feedback loop concept, e.g., known from the SASO domain or the Autonomic and Organic Computing initiatives. We define a methodology to detect such influences at runtime, present an approach to consider this information in a reinforcement learning technique, and analyze the behavior in artificial as well as real-world SASO system settings.

358
Structure from Articulated Motion: Accurate and Stable Monocular 3D Reconstruction without Training Data
2019-05-12
Recovery of articulated 3D structure from 2D observations is a challenging computer vision problem with many applications. Current learning-based approaches achieve state-of-the-art accuracy on public benchmarks but are restricted to specific types of objects and motions covered by the training datasets. Model-based approaches do not rely on training data but show lower accuracy on these datasets. In this paper, we introduce a model-based method called Structure from Articulated Motion (SfAM), which can recover multiple object and motion types without training on extensive data collections. At the same time, it performs on par with learning-based state-of-the-art approaches on public benchmarks and outperforms previous non-rigid structure from motion (NRSfM) methods. SfAM is built upon a general-purpose NRSfM technique while integrating a soft spatio-temporal constraint on the bone lengths. We use alternating optimization strategy to recover optimal geometry (i.e., bone proportions) together with 3D joint positions by enforcing the bone lengths consistency over a series of frames. SfAM is highly robust to noisy 2D annotations, generalizes to arbitrary objects and does not rely on training data, which is shown in extensive experiments on public benchmarks and real video sequences. We believe that it brings a new perspective on the domain of monocular 3D recovery of articulated structures, including human motion capture.

359
Disparity-Augmented Trajectories for Human Activity Recognition
2019-05-14
Numerous methods for human activity recognition have been proposed in the past two decades. Many of these methods are based on sparse representation, which describes the whole video content by a set of local features. Trajectories, being mid-level sparse features, are capable of describing the motion of an interest-point in 2D space. 2D trajectories might be affected by viewpoint changes, potentially decreasing their accuracy. In this paper, we initially propose and compare different 2D trajectory-based algorithms for human activity recognition. Moreover, we propose a new way of fusing disparity information with 2D trajectory information, without the calculation of 3D reconstruction. The obtained results show a 2.76\% improvement when using disparity-augmented trajectories, compared to using the classical 2D trajectory information only. Furthermore, we have also tested our method on the challenging Hollywood 3D dataset, and we have obtained competitive results, at a faster speed.

360
Learning Perspective Undistortion of Portraits
2019-05-18
Near-range portrait photographs often contain perspective distortion artifacts that bias human perception and challenge both facial recognition and reconstruction techniques. We present the first deep learning based approach to remove such artifacts from unconstrained portraits. In contrast to the previous state-of-the-art approach, our method handles even portraits with extreme perspective distortion, as we avoid the inaccurate and error-prone step of first fitting a 3D face model. Instead, we predict a distortion correction flow map that encodes a per-pixel displacement that removes distortion artifacts when applied to the input image. Our method also automatically infers missing facial features, i.e. occluded ears caused by strong perspective distortion, with coherent details. We demonstrate that our approach significantly outperforms the previous state-of-the-art both qualitatively and quantitatively, particularly for portraits with extreme perspective distortion or facial expressions. We further show that our technique benefits a number of fundamental tasks, significantly improving the accuracy of both face recognition and 3D reconstruction and enables a novel camera calibration technique from a single portrait. Moreover, we also build the first perspective portrait database with a large diversity in identities, expression and poses, which will benefit the related research in this area.

361
Analysis of critical parameters of satellite stereo image for 3D reconstruction and mapping
2019-05-17
Although nowadays advanced dense image matching (DIM) algorithms are able to produce LiDAR (Light Detection And Ranging) comparable dense point clouds from satellite stereo images, the accuracy and completeness of such point clouds heavily depend on the geometric parameters of the satellite stereo images. The intersection angle between two images are normally seen as the most important one in stereo data acquisition, as the state-of-the-art DIM algorithms work best on narrow baseline (smaller intersection angle) stereos (E.g. Semi-Global Matching regards 15-25 degrees as good intersection angle). This factor is in line with the traditional aerial photogrammetry configuration, as the intersection angle directly relates to the base-high ratio and texture distortion in the parallax direction, thus both affecting the horizontal and vertical accuracy. However, our experiments found that even with very similar (and good) intersection angles, the same DIM algorithm applied on different stereo pairs (of the same area) produced point clouds with dramatically different accuracy as compared to the ground truth LiDAR data. This raises a very practical question that is often asked by practitioners: what factors constitute a good satellite stereo pair, such that it produces accurate and optimal results for mapping purpose? In this work, we provide a comprehensive analysis on this matter by performing stereo matching over 1,000 satellite stereo pairs with different acquisition parameters including their intersection angles, off-nadir angles, sun elevation & azimuth angles, as well as time differences, thus to offer a thorough answer to this question. This work will potentially provide a valuable reference to researchers working on multi-view satellite image reconstruction, as well as industrial practitioners minimizing costs for high-quality large-scale mapping.

362
Large-Scale, Metric Structure From Motion for Unordered Light Fields
2019-06-01
    This paper presents a large scale, metric Structure from Motion (SfM) pipeline for generalised cameras with overlapping fields-of-view, and demonstrates it using Light Field (LF) images. We build on recent developments in algorithms for absolute and relative pose recovery for generalised cameras and couple them with multi-view triangulation in a robust framework that advances the state-of-the-art on 3D reconstruction from LFs in several ways. First, our framework can recover the scale of a scene. Second, it is concerned with unordered sets of LF images, meticulously determining the order in which images should be considered. Third, it can scale to datasets with hundreds of LF images. Finally, it recovers 3D scene structure while abstaining from triangulating using very small baselines. Our approach outperforms the state-of-the-art, as demonstrated by real-world experiments with variable size datasets.

363
Learning Non-Volumetric Depth Fusion Using Successive Reprojections
2019-06-01
Given a set of input views, multi-view stereopsis techniques estimate depth maps to represent the 3D reconstruction of the scene; these are fused into a single, consistent, reconstruction -- most often a point cloud. In this work we propose to learn an auto-regressive depth refinement directly from data. While deep learning has improved the accuracy and speed of depth estimation significantly, learned MVS techniques remain limited to the planesweeping paradigm. We refine a set of input depth maps by successively reprojecting information from neighbouring views to leverage multi-view constraints. Compared to learning-based volumetric fusion techniques, an image-based representation allows significantly more detailed reconstructions; compared to traditional point-based techniques, our method learns noise suppression and surface completion in a data-driven fashion. Due to the limited availability of high-quality reconstruction datasets with ground truth, we introduce two novel synthetic datasets to (pre-)train our network. Our approach is able to improve both the output depth maps and the reconstructed point cloud, for both learned and traditional depth estimation front-ends, on both synthetic and real data.

364
D2-Net: A Trainable CNN for Joint Description and Detection of Local Features
2019-06-01
In this work we address the problem of finding reliable pixel-level correspondences under difficult imaging conditions. We propose an approach where a single convolutional neural network plays a dual role: It is simultaneously a dense feature descriptor and a feature detector. By postponing the detection to a later stage, the obtained keypoints are more stable than their traditional counterparts based on early detection of low-level structures. We show that this model can be trained using pixel correspondences extracted from readily available large-scale SfM reconstructions, without any further annotations. The proposed method obtains state-of-the-art performance on both the difficult Aachen Day-Night localization dataset and the InLoc indoor localization benchmark, as well as competitive performance on other benchmarks for image matching and 3D reconstruction.

365
HoloPose: Holistic 3D Human Reconstruction In-The-Wild
2019-06-01
We introduce HoloPose, a method for holistic monocular 3D human body reconstruction. We first introduce a part-based model for 3D model parameter regression that allows our method to operate in-the-wild, gracefully handling severe occlusions and large pose variation. We further train a multi-task network comprising 2D, 3D and Dense Pose estimation to drive the 3D reconstruction task. For this we introduce an iterative refinement method that aligns the model-based 3D estimates of 2D/3D joint positions and DensePose with their image-based counterparts delivered by CNNs, achieving both model-based, global consistency and high spatial accuracy thanks to the bottom-up CNN processing. We validate our contributions on challenging benchmarks, showing that our method allows us to get both accurate joint and 3D surface estimates while operating at more than 10fps in-the-wild. More information about our approach, including videos and demos is available at http://arielai.com/holopose.

366
Neural RGB(r)D Sensing: Depth and Uncertainty From a Video Camera
2019-06-01
Depth sensing is crucial for 3D reconstruction and scene understanding. Active depth sensors provide dense metric measurements, but often suffer from limitations such as restricted operating ranges, low spatial resolution, sensor interference, and high power consumption. In this paper, we propose a deep learning (DL) method to estimate per-pixel depth and its uncertainty continuously from a monocular video stream, with the goal of effectively turning an RGB camera into an RGB-D camera. Unlike prior DL-based methods, we estimate a depth probability distribution for each pixel rather than a single depth value, leading to an estimate of a 3D depth probability volume for each input frame. These depth probability volumes are accumulated over time under a Bayesian filtering framework as more incoming frames are processed sequentially, which effectively reduces depth uncertainty and improves accuracy, robustness, and temporal stability. Compared to prior work, the proposed approach achieves more accurate and stable results, and generalizes better to new datasets. Experimental results also show the output of our approach can be directly fed into classical RGB-D based 3D scanning methods for 3D scene reconstruction. 

367
StereoDRNet: Dilated Residual StereoNet
2019-06-01
We propose a system that uses a convolution neural network (CNN) to estimate depth from a stereo pair followed by volumetric fusion of the predicted depth maps to produce a 3D reconstruction of a scene. Our proposed depth refinement architecture, predicts view-consistent disparity and occlusion maps that helps the fusion system to produce geometrically consistent reconstructions. We utilize 3D dilated convolutions in our proposed cost filtering network that yields better filtering while almost halving the computational cost in comparison to state of the art cost filtering architectures. For feature extraction we use the Vortex Pooling architecture. The proposed method achieves state of the art results in KITTI 2012, KITTI 2015 and ETH 3D stereo benchmarks. Finally, we demonstrate that our system is able to produce high fidelity 3D scene reconstructions that outperforms the state of the art stereo system. 

368
Separating Overlapping Tissue Layers from Microscopy Images
2019-05-22
Manual preparation of tissue slices for microscopy imaging can introduce tissue tears and overlaps. Typically, further digital processing algorithms such as registration and 3D reconstruction from tissue image stacks cannot handle images with tissue tear/overlap artifacts, and so such images are usually discarded. In this paper, we propose an imaging model and an algorithm to digitally separate overlapping tissue data of mouse brain images into two layers. We show the correctness of our model and the algorithm by comparing our results with the ground truth.

369
Using Orthophoto for Building Boundary Sharpening in the Digital Surface Model
2019-05-22
Nowadays dense stereo matching has become one of the dominant tools in 3D reconstruction of urban regions for its low cost and high flexibility in generating dense 3D points. However, state-of-the-art stereo matching algorithms usually apply a semi-global matching (SGM) strategy. This strategy normally assumes the surface geometry pieceswise planar, where a smooth penalty is imposed to deal with non-texture or repeating-texture areas. This on one hand, generates much smooth surface models, while on the other hand, may partially leads to smoothing on depth discontinuities, particularly for fence-shaped regions or densely built areas with narrow streets. To solve this problem, in this work, we propose to use the line segment information extracted from the corresponding orthophoto as a pose-processing tool to sharpen the building boundary of the Digital Surface Model (DSM) generated by SGM. Two methods which are based on graph-cut and plane fitting are proposed and compared. Experimental results on several satellite datasets with ground truth show the robustness and effectiveness of the proposed DSM sharpening method.

370
Robust Point Cloud Based Reconstruction of Large-Scale Outdoor Scenes
2019-05-23
Outlier feature matches and loop-closures that survived front-end data association can lead to catastrophic failures in the back-end optimization of large-scale point cloud based 3D reconstruction. To alleviate this problem, we propose a probabilistic approach for robust back-end optimization in the presence of outliers. More specifically, we model the problem as a Bayesian network and solve it using the Expectation-Maximization algorithm. Our approach leverages on a long-tail Cauchy distribution to suppress outlier feature matches in the odometry constraints, and a Cauchy-Uniform mixture model with a set of binary latent variables to simultaneously suppress outlier loop-closure constraints and outlier feature matches in the inlier loop-closure constraints. Furthermore, we show that by using a Gaussian-Uniform mixture model, our approach degenerates to the formulation of a state-of-the-art approach for robust indoor reconstruction. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach has comparable performance with the state-of-the-art on a benchmark indoor dataset, and outperforms it on a large-scale outdoor dataset. Our source code can be found on the project website.

371
DEMEA: Deep Mesh Autoencoders for Non-Rigidly Deforming Objects
2019-05-24
Mesh autoencoders are commonly used for dimensionality reduction, sampling and mesh modeling. We propose a general-purpose DEep MEsh Autoencoder (DEMEA) which adds a novel embedded deformation layer to a graph-convolutional mesh autoencoder. The embedded deformation layer (EDL) is a differentiable deformable geometric proxy which explicitly models point displacements of non-rigid deformations in a lower dimensional space and serves as a local rigidity regularizer. DEMEA decouples the parameterization of the deformation from the final mesh resolution since the deformation is defined over a lower dimensional embedded deformation graph. We perform a large-scale study on four different datasets of deformable objects. Reasoning about the local rigidity of meshes using EDL allows us to achieve higher-quality results for highly deformable objects, compared to directly regressing vertex positions. We demonstrate multiple applications of DEMEA, including non-rigid 3D reconstruction from depth and shading cues, non-rigid surface tracking, as well as the transfer of deformations over different meshes.

372
Bi-objective Framework for Sensor Fusion in RGB-D Multi-View Systems: Applications in Calibration
2019-05-23
Complete and textured 3D reconstruction of dynamic scenes has been facilitated by mapped RGB and depth information acquired by RGB-D cameras based multi-view systems. One of the most critical steps in such multi-view systems is to determine the relative poses of all cameras via a process known as extrinsic calibration. In this work, we propose a sensor fusion framework based on a weighted bi-objective optimization for refinement of extrinsic calibration tailored for RGB-D multi-view systems. The weighted bi-objective cost function, which makes use of 2D information from RGB images and 3D information from depth images, is analytically derived via the Maximum Likelihood (ML) method. The weighting factor appears as a function of noise in 2D and 3D measurements and takes into account the affect of residual errors on the optimization. We propose an iterative scheme to estimate noise variances in 2D and 3D measurements, for simultaneously computing the weighting factor together with the camera poses. An extensive quantitative and qualitative evaluation of the proposed approach shows improved calibration performance as compared to refinement schemes which use only 2D or 3D measurement information.

373
Plane-Based Optimization of Geometry and Texture for RGB-D Reconstruction of Indoor Scenes
2019-05-23
We present a novel approach to reconstruct RGB-D indoor scene with plane primitives. Our approach takes as input a RGB-D sequence and a dense coarse mesh reconstructed by some 3D reconstruction method on the sequence, and generate a lightweight, low-polygonal mesh with clear face textures and sharp features without losing geometry details from the original scene. To achieve this, we firstly partition the input mesh with plane primitives, simplify it into a lightweight mesh next, then optimize plane parameters, camera poses and texture colors to maximize the photometric consistency across frames, and finally optimize mesh geometry to maximize consistency between geometry and planes. Compared to existing planar reconstruction methods which only cover large planar regions in the scene, our method builds the entire scene by adaptive planes without losing geometry details and preserves sharp features in the final mesh. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach by applying it onto several RGB-D scans and comparing it to other state-of-the-art reconstruction methods.

374
DISN: Deep Implicit Surface Network for High-quality Single-view 3D Reconstruction
2019-05-26
Reconstructing 3D shapes from single-view images has been a long-standing research problem. In this paper, we present DISN, a Deep Implicit Surface Network which can generate a high-quality detail-rich 3D mesh from an 2D image by predicting the underlying signed distance fields. In addition to utilizing global image features, DISN predicts the projected location for each 3D point on the 2D image, and extracts local features from the image feature maps. Combining global and local features significantly improves the accuracy of the signed distance field prediction, especially for the detail-rich areas. To the best of our knowledge, DISN is the first method that constantly captures details such as holes and thin structures present in 3D shapes from single-view images. DISN achieves the state-of-the-art single-view reconstruction performance on a variety of shape categories reconstructed from both synthetic and real images. Code is available at https://github.com/xharlie/DISN The supplementary can be found at https://xharlie.github.io/images/neurips_2019_supp.pdf

375
3D Reconstruction of Whole Stomach from Endoscope Video Using Structure-from-Motion
2019-05-30
Gastric endoscopy is a common clinical practice that enables medical doctors to diagnose the stomach inside a body. In order to identify a gastric lesion's location such as early gastric cancer within the stomach, this work addressed to reconstruct the 3D shape of a whole stomach with color texture information generated from a standard monocular endoscope video. Previous works have tried to reconstruct the 3D structures of various organs from endoscope images. However, they are mainly focused on a partial surface. In this work, we investigated how to enable structure-from-motion (SfM) to reconstruct the whole shape of a stomach from a standard endoscope video. We specifically investigated the combined effect of chromo-endoscopy and color channel selection on SfM. Our study found that 3D reconstruction of the whole stomach can be achieved by using red channel images captured under chromo-endoscopy by spreading indigo carmine (IC) dye on the stomach surface.

376
Image-based 3D Object Reconstruction: State-of-the-Art and Trends in the Deep Learning Era
2019-06-15
3D reconstruction is a longstanding ill-posed problem, which has been explored for decades by the computer vision, computer graphics, and machine learning communities. Since 2015, image-based 3D reconstruction using convolutional neural networks (CNN) has attracted increasing interest and demonstrated an impressive performance. Given this new era of rapid evolution, this article provides a comprehensive survey of the recent developments in this field. We focus on the works which use deep learning techniques to estimate the 3D shape of generic objects either from a single or multiple RGB images. We organize the literature based on the shape representations, the network architectures, and the training mechanisms they use. While this survey is intended for methods which reconstruct generic objects, we also review some of the recent works which focus on specific object classes such as human body shapes and faces. We provide an analysis and comparison of the performance of some key papers, summarize some of the open problems in this field, and discuss promising directions for future research.

377
Differentiable probabilistic models of scientific imaging with the Fourier slice theorem
2019-06-18
Scientific imaging techniques such as optical and electron microscopy and computed tomography (CT) scanning are used to study the 3D structure of an object through 2D observations. These observations are related to the original 3D object through orthogonal integral projections. For common 3D reconstruction algorithms, computational efficiency requires the modeling of the 3D structures to take place in Fourier space by applying the Fourier slice theorem. At present, it is unclear how to differentiate through the projection operator, and hence current learning algorithms can not rely on gradient based methods to optimize 3D structure models. In this paper we show how back-propagation through the projection operator in Fourier space can be achieved. We demonstrate the validity of the approach with experiments on 3D reconstruction of proteins. We further extend our approach to learning probabilistic models of 3D objects. This allows us to predict regions of low sampling rates or estimate noise. A higher sample efficiency can be reached by utilizing the learned uncertainties of the 3D structure as an unsupervised estimate of the model fit. Finally, we demonstrate how the reconstruction algorithm can be extended with an amortized inference scheme on unknown attributes such as object pose. Through empirical studies we show that joint inference of the 3D structure and the object pose becomes more difficult when the ground truth object contains more symmetries. Due to the presence of for instance (approximate) rotational symmetries, the pose estimation can easily get stuck in local optima, inhibiting a fine-grained high-quality estimate of the 3D structure.

378
Learning to Reconstruct and Understand Indoor Scenes from Sparse Views
2019-06-19
This paper proposes a new method for simultaneous 3D reconstruction and semantic segmentation of indoor scenes. Unlike existing methods that require recording a video using a color camera and/or a depth camera, our method only needs a small number of (e.g., 3-5) color images from uncalibrated sparse views as input, which greatly simplifies data acquisition and extends applicable scenarios. Since different views have limited overlaps, our method allows a single image as input to discern the depth and semantic information of the scene. The key issue is how to recover relatively accurate depth from single images and reconstruct a 3D scene by fusing very few depth maps. To address this problem, we first design an iterative deep architecture, IterNet, that estimates depth and semantic segmentation alternately, so that they benefit each other. To deal with the little overlap and non-rigid transformation between views, we further propose a joint global and local registration method to reconstruct a 3D scene with semantic information from sparse views. We also make available a new indoor synthetic dataset simultaneously providing photorealistic high-resolution RGB images, accurate depth maps and pixel-level semantic labels for thousands of complex layouts, useful for training and evaluation. Experimental results on public datasets and our dataset demonstrate that our method achieves more accurate depth estimation, smaller semantic segmentation errors and better 3D reconstruction results, compared with state-of-the-art methods.

379
Analytical Derivatives for Differentiable Renderer: 3D Pose Estimation by Silhouette Consistency
2019-06-19
Differentiable render is widely used in optimization-based 3D reconstruction which requires gradients from differentiable operations for gradient-based optimization. The existing differentiable renderers obtain the gradients of rendering via numerical technique which is of low accuracy and efficiency. Motivated by this fact, a differentiable mesh renderer with analytical gradients is proposed. The main obstacle of rasterization based rendering being differentiable is the discrete sampling operation. To make the rasterization differentiable, the pixel intensity is defined as a double integral over the pixel area and the integral is approximated by anti-aliasing with an average filter. Then the analytical gradients with respect to the vertices coordinates can be derived from the continuous definition of pixel intensity. To demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed differentiable renderer, experiments of 3D pose estimation by only multi-viewpoint silhouettes were conducted. The experimental results show that 3D pose estimation without 3D and 2D joints supervision is capable of producing competitive results both qualitatively and quantitatively. The experimental results also show that the proposed differentiable renderer is of higher accuracy and efficiency compared with previous method of differentiable renderer.

380
3D Instance Segmentation via Multi-Task Metric Learning
2019-06-20
We propose a novel method for instance label segmentation of dense 3D voxel grids. We target volumetric scene representations, which have been acquired with depth sensors or multi-view stereo methods and which have been processed with semantic 3D reconstruction or scene completion methods. The main task is to learn shape information about individual object instances in order to accurately separate them, including connected and incompletely scanned objects. We solve the 3D instance-labeling problem with a multi-task learning strategy. The first goal is to learn an abstract feature embedding, which groups voxels with the same instance label close to each other while separating clusters with different instance labels from each other. The second goal is to learn instance information by densely estimating directional information of the instance's center of mass for each voxel. This is particularly useful to find instance boundaries in the clustering post-processing step, as well as, for scoring the segmentation quality for the first goal. Both synthetic and real-world experiments demonstrate the viability and merits of our approach. In fact, it achieves state-of-the-art performance on the ScanNet 3D instance segmentation benchmark.

381
Discrete Optimization of Ray Potentials for Semantic 3D Reconstruction
2019-06-25
Dense semantic 3D reconstruction is typically formulated as a discrete or continuous problem over label assignments in a voxel grid, combining semantic and depth likelihoods in a Markov Random Field framework. The depth and semantic information is incorporated as a unary potential, smoothed by a pairwise regularizer. However, modelling likelihoods as a unary potential does not model the problem correctly leading to various undesirable visibility artifacts. We propose to formulate an optimization problem that directly optimizes the reprojection error of the 3D model with respect to the image estimates, which corresponds to the optimization over rays, where the cost function depends on the semantic class and depth of the first occupied voxel along the ray. The 2-label formulation is made feasible by transforming it into a graph-representable form under QPBO relaxation, solvable using graph cut. The multi-label problem is solved by applying alpha-expansion using the same relaxation in each expansion move. Our method was indeed shown to be feasible in practice, running comparably fast to the competing methods, while not suffering from ray potential approximation artifacts.

382
3DBGrowth: volumetric vertebrae segmentation and reconstruction in magnetic resonance imaging
2019-06-25
Segmentation of medical images is critical for making several processes of analysis and classification more reliable. With the growing number of people presenting back pain and related problems, the semi-automatic segmentation and 3D reconstruction of vertebral bodies became even more important to support decision making. A 3D reconstruction allows a fast and objective analysis of each vertebrae condition, which may play a major role in surgical planning and evaluation of suitable treatments. In this paper, we propose 3DBGrowth, which develops a 3D reconstruction over the efficient Balanced Growth method for 2D images. We also take advantage of the slope coefficient from the annotation time to reduce the total number of annotated slices, reducing the time spent on manual annotation. We show experimental results on a representative dataset with 17 MRI exams demonstrating that our approach significantly outperforms the competitors and, on average, only 37% of the total slices with vertebral body content must be annotated without losing performance/accuracy. Compared to the state-of-the-art methods, we have achieved a Dice Score gain of over 5% with comparable processing time. Moreover, 3DBGrowth works well with imprecise seed points, which reduces the time spent on manual annotation by the specialist.

383
A linear method for camera pair self-calibration and multi-view reconstruction with geometrically verified correspondences
2019-06-28
We examine 3D reconstruction of architectural scenes in unordered sets of uncalibrated images. We introduce a linear method to self-calibrate and find the metric reconstruction of a camera pair. We assume unknown and different focal lengths but otherwise known internal camera parameters and a known projective reconstruction of the camera pair. We recover two possible camera configurations in space and use the Cheirality condition, that all 3D scene points are in front of both cameras, to disambiguate the solution. We show in two Theorems, first that the two solutions are in mirror positions and then the relations between their viewing directions. Our new method performs on par (median rotation error $\Delta R = 3.49^{\circ}$) with the standard approach of Kruppa equations ($\Delta R = 3.77^{\circ}$) for self-calibration and 5-Point algorithm for calibrated metric reconstruction of a camera pair. We reject erroneous image correspondences by introducing a method to examine whether point correspondences appear in the same order along $x, y$ image axes in image pairs. We evaluate this method by its precision and recall and show that it improves the robustness of point matches in architectural and general scenes. Finally, we integrate all the introduced methods to a 3D reconstruction pipeline. We utilize the numerous camera pair metric recontructions using rotation-averaging algorithms and a novel method to average focal length estimates.

384
Pano Popups: Indoor 3D Reconstruction with a Plane-Aware Network
2019-07-01
In this work we present a method to train a plane-aware convolutional neural network for dense depth and surface normal estimation as well as plane boundaries from a single indoor $360^\circ$ image. Using our proposed loss function, our network outperforms existing methods for single-view, indoor, omnidirectional depth estimation and provides an initial benchmark for surface normal prediction from $360^\circ$ images. Our improvements are due to the use of a novel plane-aware loss that leverages principal curvature as an indicator of planar boundaries. We also show that including geodesic coordinate maps as network priors provides a significant boost in surface normal prediction accuracy. Finally, we demonstrate how we can combine our network's outputs to generate high quality 3D "pop-up" models of indoor scenes.

385
Cryo-EM reconstruction of continuous heterogeneity by Laplacian spectral volumes
2019-07-01
Single-particle electron cryomicroscopy is an essential tool for high-resolution 3D reconstruction of proteins and other biological macromolecules. An important challenge in cryo-EM is the reconstruction of non-rigid molecules with parts that move and deform. Traditional reconstruction methods fail in these cases, resulting in smeared reconstructions of the moving parts. This poses a major obstacle for structural biologists, who need high-resolution reconstructions of entire macromolecules, moving parts included. To address this challenge, we present a new method for the reconstruction of macromolecules exhibiting continuous heterogeneity. The proposed method uses projection images from multiple viewing directions to construct a graph Laplacian through which the manifold of three-dimensional conformations is analyzed. The 3D molecular structures are then expanded in a basis of Laplacian eigenvectors, using a novel generalized tomographic reconstruction algorithm to compute the expansion coefficients. These coefficients, which we name spectral volumes, provide a high-resolution visualization of the molecular dynamics. We provide a theoretical analysis and evaluate the method empirically on several simulated data sets.

386
Learning Structural Graph Layouts and 3D Shapes for Long Span Bridges 3D Reconstruction
2019-07-08
A learning-based 3D reconstruction method for long-span bridges is proposed in this paper. 3D reconstruction generates a 3D computer model of a real object or scene from images, it involves many stages and open problems. Existing point-based methods focus on generating 3D point clouds and their reconstructed polygonal mesh or fitting-based geometrical models in urban scenes civil structures reconstruction within Manhattan world constrains and have made great achievements. Difficulties arise when an attempt is made to transfer these systems to structures with complex topology and part relations like steel trusses and long-span bridges, this could be attributed to point clouds are often unevenly distributed with noise and suffer from occlusions and incompletion, recovering a satisfactory 3D model from these highly unstructured point clouds in a bottom-up pattern while preserving the geometrical and topological properties makes enormous challenge to existing algorithms. Considering the prior human knowledge that these structures are in conformity to regular spatial layouts in terms of components, a learning-based topology-aware 3D reconstruction method which can obtain high-level structural graph layouts and low-level 3D shapes from images is proposed in this paper. We demonstrate the feasibility of this method by testing on two real long-span steel truss cable-stayed bridges.

387
S&CNet: Monocular Depth Completion for Autonomous Systems and 3D Reconstruction
2019-07-13
Dense depth completion is essential for autonomous systems and 3D reconstruction. In this paper, a lightweight yet efficient network (S\&CNet) is proposed to obtain a good trade-off between efficiency and accuracy for the dense depth completion. A dual-stream attention module (S\&C enhancer) is introduced to measure both spatial-wise and the channel-wise global-range relationship of extracted features so as to improve the performance. A coarse-to-fine network is designed and the proposed S\&C enhancer is plugged into the coarse estimation network between its encoder and decoder network. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach achieves competitive performance with existing works on KITTI dataset but almost four times faster. The proposed S\&C enhancer can be plugged into other existing works and boost their performance significantly with a negligible additional computational cost.

388
Stereo-based terrain traversability analysis using normal-based segmentation and superpixel surface analysis
2019-07-16
In this paper, an stereo-based traversability analysis approach for all terrains in off-road mobile robotics, e.g. Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGVs) is proposed. This approach reformulates the problem of terrain traversability analysis into two main problems: (1) 3D terrain reconstruction and (2) terrain all surfaces detection and analysis. The proposed approach is using stereo camera for perception and 3D reconstruction of the terrain. In order to detect all the existing surfaces in the 3D reconstructed terrain as superpixel surfaces (i.e. segments), an image segmentation technique is applied using geometry-based features (pixel-based surface normals). Having detected all the surfaces, Superpixel Surface Traversability Analysis approach (SSTA) is applied on all of the detected surfaces (superpixel segments) in order to classify them based on their traversability index. The proposed SSTA approach is based on: (1) Superpixel surface normal and plane estimation, (2) Traversability analysis using superpixel surface planes. Having analyzed all the superpixel surfaces based on their traversability, these surfaces are finally classified into five main categories as following: traversable, semi-traversable, non-traversable, unknown and undecided.

389
Single-View Reconstruction via Joint Analysis of Image and Shape Collections
2015-12-01
We present an approach to automatic 3D reconstruction of objects depicted in Web images. The approach reconstructs objects from single views. The key idea is to jointly analyze a collection of images of different objects along with a smaller collection of existing 3D models. The images are analyzed and reconstructed together. Joint analysis regularizes the formulated optimization problems, stabilizes correspondence estimation, and leads to reasonable reproduction of object appearance without traditional multi-view cues.

390
Temporally Consistent Horizon Lines
2019-07-23
The horizon line is an important geometric feature for many image processing and scene understanding tasks in computer vision. For instance, in navigation of autonomous vehicles or driver assistance, it can be used to improve 3D reconstruction as well as for semantic interpretation of dynamic environments. While both algorithms and datasets exist for single images, the problem of horizon line estimation from video sequences has not gained attention. In this paper, we show how convolutional neural networks are able to utilise the temporal consistency imposed by video sequences in order to increase the accuracy and reduce the variance of horizon line estimates. A novel CNN architecture with an improved residual convolutional LSTM is presented for temporally consistent horizon line estimation. We propose an adaptive loss function that ensures stable training as well as accurate results. Furthermore, we introduce an extension of the KITTI dataset which contains precise horizon line labels for 43699 images across 72 video sequences. A comprehensive evaluation shows that the proposed approach consistently achieves superior performance compared with existing methods.

391
Learning Embedding of 3D models with Quadric Loss
2019-07-24
Sharp features such as edges and corners play an important role in the perception of 3D models. In order to capture them better, we propose quadric loss, a point-surface loss function, which minimizes the quadric error between the reconstructed points and the input surface. Computation of Quadric loss is easy, efficient since the quadric matrices can be computed apriori, and is fully differentiable, making quadric loss suitable for training point and mesh based architectures. Through extensive experiments we show the merits and demerits of quadric loss. When combined with Chamfer loss, quadric loss achieves better reconstruction results as compared to any one of them or other point-surface loss functions.

392
Pose-variant 3D Facial Attribute Generation
2019-07-24
We address the challenging problem of generating facial attributes using a single image in an unconstrained pose. In contrast to prior works that largely consider generation on 2D near-frontal images, we propose a GAN-based framework to generate attributes directly on a dense 3D representation given by UV texture and position maps, resulting in photorealistic, geometrically-consistent and identity-preserving outputs. Starting from a self-occluded UV texture map obtained by applying an off-the-shelf 3D reconstruction method, we propose two novel components. First, a texture completion generative adversarial network (TC-GAN) completes the partial UV texture map. Second, a 3D attribute generation GAN (3DA-GAN) synthesizes the target attribute while obtaining an appearance consistent with 3D face geometry and preserving identity. Extensive experiments on CelebA, LFW and IJB-A show that our method achieves consistently better attribute generation accuracy than prior methods, a higher degree of qualitative photorealism and preserves face identity information.

393
PU-GAN: a Point Cloud Upsampling Adversarial Network
2019-07-25
Point clouds acquired from range scans are often sparse, noisy, and non-uniform. This paper presents a new point cloud upsampling network called PU-GAN, which is formulated based on a generative adversarial network (GAN), to learn a rich variety of point distributions from the latent space and upsample points over patches on object surfaces. To realize a working GAN network, we construct an up-down-up expansion unit in the generator for upsampling point features with error feedback and self-correction, and formulate a self-attention unit to enhance the feature integration. Further, we design a compound loss with adversarial, uniform and reconstruction terms, to encourage the discriminator to learn more latent patterns and enhance the output point distribution uniformity. Qualitative and quantitative evaluations demonstrate the quality of our results over the state-of-the-arts in terms of distribution uniformity, proximity-to-surface, and 3D reconstruction quality.

394
Silhouette Guided Point Cloud Reconstruction beyond Occlusion
2019-07-29
One major challenge in 3D reconstruction is to infer the complete shape geometry from partial foreground occlusions. In this paper, we propose a method to reconstruct the complete 3D shape of an object from a single RGB image, with robustness to occlusion. Given the image and a silhouette of the visible region, our approach completes the silhouette of the occluded region and then generates a point cloud. We show improvements for reconstruction of non-occluded and partially occluded objects by providing the predicted complete silhouette as guidance. We also improve state-of-the-art for 3D shape prediction with a 2D reprojection loss from multiple synthetic views and a surface-based smoothing and refinement step. Experiments demonstrate the efficacy of our approach both quantitatively and qualitatively on synthetic and real scene datasets.

395
3D Reconstruction of Deformable Revolving Object under Heavy Hand Interaction
2019-08-05
We reconstruct 3D deformable object through time, in the context of a live pottery making process where the crafter molds the object. Because the object suffers from heavy hand interaction, and is being deformed, classical techniques cannot be applied. We use particle energy optimization to estimate the object profile and benefit of the object radial symmetry to increase the robustness of the reconstruction to both occlusion and noise. Our method works with an unconstrained scalable setup with one or more depth sensors. We evaluate on our database (released upon publication) on a per-frame and temporal basis and shows it significantly outperforms state-of-the-art achieving 7.60mm average object reconstruction error. Further ablation studies demonstrate the effectiveness of our method.

396
Jointly Aligning Millions of Images with Deep Penalised Reconstruction Congealing
2019-08-12
Extrapolating fine-grained pixel-level correspondences in a fully unsupervised manner from a large set of misaligned images can benefit several computer vision and graphics problems, e.g. co-segmentation, super-resolution, image edit propagation, structure-from-motion, and 3D reconstruction. Several joint image alignment and congealing techniques have been proposed to tackle this problem, but robustness to initialisation, ability to scale to large datasets, and alignment accuracy seem to hamper their wide applicability. To overcome these limitations, we propose an unsupervised joint alignment method leveraging a densely fused spatial transformer network to estimate the warping parameters for each image and a low-capacity auto-encoder whose reconstruction error is used as an auxiliary measure of joint alignment. Experimental results on digits from multiple versions of MNIST (i.e., original, perturbed, affNIST and infiMNIST) and faces from LFW, show that our approach is capable of aligning millions of images with high accuracy and robustness to different levels and types of perturbation. Moreover, qualitative and quantitative results suggest that the proposed method outperforms state-of-the-art approaches both in terms of alignment quality and robustness to initialisation.

397
Directional TSDF: Modeling Surface Orientation for Coherent Meshes
2019-08-14
Real-time 3D reconstruction from RGB-D sensor data plays an important role in many robotic applications, such as object modeling and mapping. The popular method of fusing depth information into a truncated signed distance function (TSDF) and applying the marching cubes algorithm for mesh extraction has severe issues with thin structures: not only does it lead to loss of accuracy, but it can generate completely wrong surfaces. To address this, we propose the directional TSDF - a novel representation that stores opposite surfaces separate from each other. The marching cubes algorithm is modified accordingly to retrieve a coherent mesh representation. We further increase the accuracy by using surface gradient-based ray casting for fusing new measurements. We show that our method outperforms state-of-the-art TSDF reconstruction algorithms in mesh accuracy.

398
Matching-based Depth Camera and Mirrors for 3D Reconstruction
2019-08-17
Reconstructing 3D object models is playing an important role in many applications in the field of computer vision. Instead of employing a collection of cameras and/or sensors as in many studies, this paper proposes a simple way to build a cheaper system for 3D reconstruction using only one depth camera and 2 or more mirrors. Each mirror is equivalently considered as a depth camera at another viewpoint. Since all scene data are provided by only one depth sensor, our approach can be applied to moving objects and does not require any synchronization protocol as with a set of cameras. Some experiments were performed on easy-to-evaluate objects to confirm the reconstruction accuracy of our proposed system.

399
Probabilistic Reconstruction Networks for 3D Shape Inference from a Single Image
2019-08-20
We study end-to-end learning strategies for 3D shape inference from images, in particular from a single image. Several approaches in this direction have been investigated that explore different shape representations and suitable learning architectures. We focus instead on the underlying probabilistic mechanisms involved and contribute a more principled probabilistic inference-based reconstruction framework, which we coin Probabilistic Reconstruction Networks. This framework expresses image conditioned 3D shape inference through a family of latent variable models, and naturally decouples the choice of shape representations from the inference itself. Moreover, it suggests different options for the image conditioning and allows training in two regimes, using either Monte Carlo or variational approximation of the marginal likelihood. Using our Probabilistic Reconstruction Networks we obtain single image 3D reconstruction results that set a new state of the art on the ShapeNet dataset in terms of the intersection over union and earth mover's distance evaluation metrics. Interestingly, we obtain these results using a basic voxel grid representation, improving over recent work based on finer point cloud or mesh based representations.

400
PCRNet: Point Cloud Registration Network using PointNet Encoding
2019-08-21
PointNet has recently emerged as a popular representation for unstructured point cloud data, allowing application of deep learning to tasks such as object detection, segmentation and shape completion. However, recent works in literature have shown the sensitivity of the PointNet representation to pose misalignment. This paper presents a novel framework that uses the PointNet representation to align point clouds and perform registration for applications such as tracking, 3D reconstruction and pose estimation. We develop a framework that compares PointNet features of template and source point clouds to find the transformation that aligns them accurately. Depending on the prior information about the shape of the object formed by the point clouds, our framework can produce approaches that are shape specific or general to unseen shapes. The shape specific approach uses a Siamese architecture with fully connected (FC) layers and is robust to noise and initial misalignment in data. We perform extensive simulation and real-world experiments to validate the efficacy of our approach and compare the performance with state-of-art approaches.

401
DirectPET: Full Size Neural Network PET Reconstruction from Sinogram Data
2019-08-19
Purpose: Neural network image reconstruction directly from measurement data is a relatively new field of research, that until now has been limited to producing small single-slice images (e.g., 1x128x128). This paper proposes a novel and more efficient network design for Positron Emission Tomography called DirectPET which is capable of reconstructing multi-slice image volumes (i.e., 16x400x400) from sinograms. Approach: Large-scale direct neural network reconstruction is accomplished by addressing the associated memory space challenge through the introduction of a specially designed Radon inversion layer. Using patient data, we compare the proposed method to the benchmark Ordered Subsets Expectation Maximization (OSEM) algorithm using signal-to-noise ratio, bias, mean absolute error and structural similarity measures. In addition, line profiles and full-width half-maximum measurements are provided for a sample of lesions. Results: DirectPET is shown capable of producing images that are quantitatively and qualitatively similar to the OSEM target images in a fraction of the time. We also report on an experiment where DirectPET is trained to map low count raw data to normal count target images demonstrating the method's ability to maintain image quality under a low dose scenario. Conclusion: The ability of DirectPET to quickly reconstruct high-quality, multi-slice image volumes suggests potential clinical viability of the method. However, design parameters and performance boundaries need to be fully established before adoption can be considered.

402
Pro-Cam SSfM: Projector-Camera System for Structure and Spectral Reflectance from Motion
2019-08-22
In this paper, we propose a novel projector-camera system for practical and low-cost acquisition of a dense object 3D model with the spectral reflectance property. In our system, we use a standard RGB camera and leverage an off-the-shelf projector as active illumination for both the 3D reconstruction and the spectral reflectance estimation. We first reconstruct the 3D points while estimating the poses of the camera and the projector, which are alternately moved around the object, by combining multi-view structured light and structure-from-motion (SfM) techniques. We then exploit the projector for multispectral imaging and estimate the spectral reflectance of each 3D point based on a novel spectral reflectance estimation model considering the geometric relationship between the reconstructed 3D points and the estimated projector positions. Experimental results on several real objects demonstrate that our system can precisely acquire a dense 3D model with the full spectral reflectance property using off-the-shelf devices.

403
Multi-Spectral Visual Odometry without Explicit Stereo Matching
2019-08-23
Multi-spectral sensors consisting of a standard (visible-light) camera and a long-wave infrared camera can simultaneously provide both visible and thermal images. Since thermal images are independent from environmental illumination, they can help to overcome certain limitations of standard cameras under complicated illumination conditions. However, due to the difference in the information source of the two types of cameras, their images usually share very low texture similarity. Hence, traditional texture-based feature matching methods cannot be directly applied to obtain stereo correspondences. To tackle this problem, a multi-spectral visual odometry method without explicit stereo matching is proposed in this paper. Bundle adjustment of multi-view stereo is performed on the visible and the thermal images using direct image alignment. Scale drift can be avoided by additional temporal observations of map points with the fixed-baseline stereo. Experimental results indicate that the proposed method can provide accurate visual odometry results with recovered metric scale. Moreover, the proposed method can also provide a metric 3D reconstruction in semi-dense density with multi-spectral information, which is not available from existing multi-spectral methods.

404
Hyperparameter-Free Losses for Model-Based Monocular Reconstruction
2019-08-16
This work proposes novel hyperparameter-free losses for single view 3D reconstruction with morphable models (3DMM). We dispense with the hyperparameters used in other works by exploiting geometry, so that the shape of the object and the camera pose are jointly optimized in a sole term expression. This simplification reduces the optimization time and its complexity. Moreover, we propose a novel implicit regularization technique based on random virtual projections that does not require additional 2D or 3D annotations. Our experiments suggest that minimizing a shape reprojection error together with the proposed implicit regularization is especially suitable for applications that require precise alignment between geometry and image spaces, such as augmented reality. We evaluate our losses on a large scale dataset with 3D ground truth and publish our implementations to facilitate reproducibility and public benchmarking in this field.

405
Discrete Laplace Operator Estimation for Dynamic 3D Reconstruction
2019-08-29
We present a general paradigm for dynamic 3D reconstruction from multiple independent and uncontrolled image sources having arbitrary temporal sampling density and distribution. Our graph-theoretic formulation models the Spatio-temporal relationships among our observations in terms of the joint estimation of their 3D geometry and its discrete Laplace operator. Towards this end, we define a tri-convex optimization framework that leverages the geometric properties and dependencies found among a Euclideanshape-space and the discrete Laplace operator describing its local and global topology. We present a reconstructability analysis, experiments on motion capture data and multi-view image datasets, as well as explore applications to geometry-based event segmentation and data association.

406
Learned Semantic Multi-Sensor Depth Map Fusion
2019-09-02
Volumetric depth map fusion based on truncated signed distance functions has become a standard method and is used in many 3D reconstruction pipelines. In this paper, we are generalizing this classic method in multiple ways: 1) Semantics: Semantic information enriches the scene representation and is incorporated into the fusion process. 2) Multi-Sensor: Depth information can originate from different sensors or algorithms with very different noise and outlier statistics which are considered during data fusion. 3) Scene denoising and completion: Sensors can fail to recover depth for certain materials and light conditions, or data is missing due to occlusions. Our method denoises the geometry, closes holes and computes a watertight surface for every semantic class. 4) Learning: We propose a neural network reconstruction method that unifies all these properties within a single powerful framework. Our method learns sensor or algorithm properties jointly with semantic depth fusion and scene completion and can also be used as an expert system, e.g. to unify the strengths of various photometric stereo algorithms. Our approach is the first to unify all these properties. Experimental evaluations on both synthetic and real data sets demonstrate clear improvements.

407
Self-Supervised Deep Depth Denoising
2019-09-03
Depth perception is considered an invaluable source of information for various vision tasks. However, depth maps acquired using consumer-level sensors still suffer from non-negligible noise. This fact has recently motivated researchers to exploit traditional filters, as well as the deep learning paradigm, in order to suppress the aforementioned non-uniform noise, while preserving geometric details. Despite the effort, deep depth denoising is still an open challenge mainly due to the lack of clean data that could be used as ground truth. In this paper, we propose a fully convolutional deep autoencoder that learns to denoise depth maps, surpassing the lack of ground truth data. Specifically, the proposed autoencoder exploits multiple views of the same scene from different points of view in order to learn to suppress noise in a self-supervised end-to-end manner using depth and color information during training, yet only depth during inference. To enforce selfsupervision, we leverage a differentiable rendering technique to exploit photometric supervision, which is further regularized using geometric and surface priors. As the proposed approach relies on raw data acquisition, a large RGB-D corpus is collected using Intel RealSense sensors. Complementary to a quantitative evaluation, we demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed self-supervised denoising approach on established 3D reconstruction applications. Code is avalable at https://github.com/VCL3D/DeepDepthDenoising

408
Few-Shot Generalization for Single-Image 3D Reconstruction via Priors
2019-09-03
Recent work on single-view 3D reconstruction shows impressive results, but has been restricted to a few fixed categories where extensive training data is available. The problem of generalizing these models to new classes with limited training data is largely open. To address this problem, we present a new model architecture that reframes single-view 3D reconstruction as learnt, category agnostic refinement of a provided, category-specific prior. The provided prior shape for a novel class can be obtained from as few as one 3D shape from this class. Our model can start reconstructing objects from the novel class using this prior without seeing any training image for this class and without any retraining. Our model outperforms category-agnostic baselines and remains competitive with more sophisticated baselines that finetune on the novel categories. Additionally, our network is capable of improving the reconstruction given multiple views despite not being trained on task of multi-view reconstruction.

409
Iterative Clustering with Game-Theoretic Matching for Robust Multi-consistency Correspondence
2019-09-03
Matching corresponding features between two images is a fundamental task to computer vision with numerous applications in object recognition, robotics, and 3D reconstruction. Current state of the art in image feature matching has focused on establishing a single consistency in static scenes; by contrast, finding multiple consistencies in dynamic scenes has been under-researched. In this paper, we present an end-to-end optimization framework named "iterative clustering with Game-Theoretic Matching" (ic-GTM) for robust multi-consistency correspondence. The key idea is to formulate multi-consistency matching as a generalized clustering problem for an image pair. In our formulation, several local matching games are simultaneously carried out in different corresponding block pairs under the guidance of a novel payoff function consisting of both geometric and descriptive compatibility; the global matching results are further iteratively refined by clustering and thresholding with respect to a payoff matrix. We also propose three new metrics for evaluating the performance of multi-consistency image feature matching. Extensive experimental results have shown that the proposed framework significantly outperforms previous state-of-the-art approaches on both singleconsistency and multi-consistency datasets.

410
Self-supervised Dense 3D Reconstruction from Monocular Endoscopic Video
2019-09-06
We present a self-supervised learning-based pipeline for dense 3D reconstruction from full-length monocular endoscopic videos without a priori modeling of anatomy or shading. Our method only relies on unlabeled monocular endoscopic videos and conventional multi-view stereo algorithms, and requires neither manual interaction nor patient CT in both training and application phases. In a cross-patient study using CT scans as groundtruth, we show that our method is able to produce photo-realistic dense 3D reconstructions with submillimeter mean residual errors from endoscopic videos from unseen patients and scopes.

411
DublinCity: Annotated LiDAR Point Cloud and its Applications
2019-09-06
Scene understanding of full-scale 3D models of an urban area remains a challenging task. While advanced computer vision techniques offer cost-effective approaches to analyse 3D urban elements, a precise and densely labelled dataset is quintessential. The paper presents the first-ever labelled dataset for a highly dense Aerial Laser Scanning (ALS) point cloud at city-scale. This work introduces a novel benchmark dataset that includes a manually annotated point cloud for over 260 million laser scanning points into 100'000 (approx.) assets from Dublin LiDAR point cloud [12] in 2015. Objects are labelled into 13 classes using hierarchical levels of detail from large (i.e., building, vegetation and ground) to refined (i.e., window, door and tree) elements. To validate the performance of our dataset, two different applications are showcased. Firstly, the labelled point cloud is employed for training Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) to classify urban elements. The dataset is tested on the well-known state-of-the-art CNNs (i.e., PointNet, PointNet++ and So-Net). Secondly, the complete ALS dataset is applied as detailed ground truth for city-scale image-based 3D reconstruction.

412
CvxNet: Learnable Convex Decomposition
2019-09-12
Any solid object can be decomposed into a collection of convex polytopes (in short, convexes). When a small number of convexes are used, such a decomposition can be thought of as a piece-wise approximation of the geometry. This decomposition is fundamental in computer graphics, where it provides one of the most common ways to approximate geometry, for example, in real-time physics simulation. A convex object also has the property of being simultaneously an explicit and implicit representation: one can interpret it explicitly as a mesh derived by computing the vertices of a convex hull, or implicitly as the collection of half-space constraints or support functions. Their implicit representation makes them particularly well suited for neural network training, as they abstract away from the topology of the geometry they need to represent. However, at testing time, convexes can also generate explicit representations -- polygonal meshes -- which can then be used in any downstream application. We introduce a network architecture to represent a low dimensional family of convexes. This family is automatically derived via an auto-encoding process. We investigate the applications of this architecture including automatic convex decomposition, image to 3D reconstruction, and part-based shape retrieval.

413
UNI-EM: An Environment for Deep Neural Network-Based Automated Segmentation of Neuronal Electron Microscopic Images
2019-04-12
Recently, there has been a rapid expansion in the field of micro-connectomics, which targets the three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction of neuronal networks from a stack of two-dimensional (2D) electron microscopic (EM) images. The spatial scale of the 3D reconstruction grows rapidly owing to deep neural networks (DNNs) that enable automated image segmentation. Several research teams have developed their own software pipelines for DNN-based segmentation. However, the complexity of such pipelines makes their use difficult even for computer experts and impossible for non-experts. In this study, we developed a new software program, called UNI-EM, that enables 2D- and 3D-DNN-based segmentation for non-computer experts. UNI-EM is a software collection for DNN-based EM image segmentation, including ground truth generation, training, inference, postprocessing, proofreading, and visualization. UNI-EM comes with a set of 2D DNNs, i.e., U-Net, ResNet, HighwayNet, and DenseNet. We further wrapped flood-filling networks (FFNs) as a representative 3D DNN-based neuron segmentation algorithm. The 2D- and 3D-DNNs are known to show state-of-the-art level segmentation performance. We then provided two-example workflows: mitochondria segmentation using a 2D DNN as well as neuron segmentation using FFNs. Following these example workflows, users can benefit from DNN-based segmentation without any knowledge of Python programming or DNN frameworks.

414
Weakly-Supervised 3D Pose Estimation from a Single Image using Multi-View Consistency
2019-09-13
We present a novel data-driven regularizer for weakly-supervised learning of 3D human pose estimation that eliminates the drift problem that affects existing approaches. We do this by moving the stereo reconstruction problem into the loss of the network itself. This avoids the need to reconstruct 3D data prior to training and unlike previous semi-supervised approaches, avoids the need for a warm-up period of supervised training. The conceptual and implementational simplicity of our approach is fundamental to its appeal. Not only is it straightforward to augment many weakly-supervised approaches with our additional re-projection based loss, but it is obvious how it shapes reconstructions and prevents drift. As such we believe it will be a valuable tool for any researcher working in weakly-supervised 3D reconstruction. Evaluating on Panoptic, the largest multi-camera and markerless dataset available, we obtain an accuracy that is essentially indistinguishable from a strongly-supervised approach making full use of 3D groundtruth in training.

415
An Efficient Sampling-based Method for Online Informative Path Planning in Unknown Environments
2019-09-20
The ability to plan informative paths online is essential to robot autonomy. In particular, sampling-based approaches are often used as they are capable of using arbitrary information gain formulations. However, they are prone to local minima, resulting in sub-optimal trajectories, and sometimes do not reach global coverage. In this paper, we present a new RRT*-inspired online informative path planning algorithm. Our method continuously expands a single tree of candidate trajectories and rewires segments to maintain the tree and refine intermediate trajectories. This allows the algorithm to achieve global coverage and maximize the utility of a path in a global context, using a single objective function. We demonstrate the algorithm's capabilities in the applications of autonomous indoor exploration as well as accurate Truncated Signed Distance Field (TSDF)-based 3D reconstruction on-board a Micro Aerial vehicle (MAV). We study the impact of commonly used information gain and cost formulations in these scenarios and propose a novel TSDF-based 3D reconstruction gain and cost-utility formulation. Detailed evaluation in realistic simulation environments show that our approach outperforms state of the art methods in these tasks. Experiments on a real MAV demonstrate the ability of our method to robustly plan in real-time, exploring an indoor environment solely with on-board sensing and computation. We make our framework available for future research.

416
Track to Reconstruct and Reconstruct to Track
2019-09-30
Object tracking and 3D reconstruction are often performed together, with tracking used as input for reconstruction. However, the obtained reconstructions also provide useful information for improving tracking. We propose a novel method that closes this loop, first tracking to reconstruct, and then reconstructing to track. Our approach, MOTSFusion (Multi-Object Tracking, Segmentation and dynamic object Fusion), exploits the 3D motion extracted from dynamic object reconstructions to track objects through long periods of complete occlusion and to recover missing detections. Our approach first builds up short tracklets using 2D optical flow, and then fuses these into dynamic 3D object reconstructions. The precise 3D object motion of these reconstructions is used to merge tracklets through occlusion into long-term tracks, and to locate objects when detections are missing. On KITTI, our reconstruction-based tracking reduces the number of ID switches of the initial tracklets by more than 50%, and outperforms all previous approaches for both bounding box and segmentation tracking.

417
Learning Continuous 3D Reconstructions for Geometrically Aware Grasping
2019-10-02
Deep learning has enabled remarkable improvements in grasp synthesis for previously unseen objects from partial object views. However, existing approaches lack the ability to explicitly reason about the full 3D geometry of the object when selecting a grasp, relying on indirect geometric reasoning derived when learning grasp success networks. This abandons explicit geometric reasoning, such as avoiding undesired robot object collisions. We propose to utilize a novel, learned 3D reconstruction to enable geometric awareness in a grasping system. We leverage the structure of the reconstruction network to learn a grasp success classifier which serves as the objective function for a continuous grasp optimization. We additionally explicitly constrain the optimization to avoid undesired contact, directly using the reconstruction. We examine the role of geometry in grasping both in the training of grasp metrics and through 96 robot grasping trials. Our results can be found on https://sites.google.com/view/reconstruction-grasp/.

418
Diffeomorphic registration with intensity transformation and missing data: Application to 3D digital pathology of Alzheimers disease
2019-01-04
This paper examines the problem of diffeomorphic image mapping in the presence of differing image intensity profiles and missing data. Our motivation comes from the problem of aligning 3D brain MRI with 100 micron isotropic resolution, to histology sections with 1 micron in plane resolution. Multiple stains, as well as damaged, folded, or missing tissue are common in this situation. We overcome these challenges by introducing two new concepts. Cross modality image matching is achieved by jointly estimating polynomial transformations of the atlas intensity, together with pose and deformation parameters. Missing data is accommodated via a multiple atlas selection procedure where several atlases may be of homogeneous intensity and correspond to background or artifact. The two concepts are combined within an Expectation Maximization algorithm, where atlas selection posteriors and deformation parameters are updated iteratively, and polynomial coefficients are computed in closed form. We show results for 3D reconstruction of digital pathology and MRI in standard atlas coordinates. In conjunction with convolutional neural networks, we quantify the 3D density distribution of tauopathy throughout the medial temporal lobe of an Alzheimers disease postmortem specimen.

Author summary Our work in Alzheimers disease (AD) is attempting to connect histopathology at autopsy and longitudinal clinical magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), combining the strengths of each modality in a common coordinate system. We are bridging this gap by using post mortem high resolution MRI to reconstruct digital pathology in 3D. This image registration problem is challenging because it combines images from different modalities in the presence of missing tissue and artifacts. We overcome this challenge by developing a new registration technique that simultaneously classifies each pixel as good data / missing tissue / artifact, learns a contrast transformation between modalities, and computes deformation parameters. We name this technique (D)eformable (R)egistration and (I)ntensity (T)ransformation with (M)issing (D)ata, pronounced as Dr. It, M.D.. In conjunction with convolutional neural networks, we use this technique to map the three dimensional distribution of tau tangles in the medial temporal lobe of an AD postmortem specimen.

419
Higher Order Function Networks for View Planning and Multi-View Reconstruction
2019-10-04
We consider the problem of planning views for a robot to acquire images of an object for visual inspection and reconstruction. In contrast to offline methods which require a 3D model of the object as input or online methods which rely on only local measurements, our method uses a neural network which encodes shape information for a large number of objects. We build on recent deep learning methods capable of generating a complete 3D reconstruction of an object from a single image. Specifically, in this work, we extend a recent method which uses Higher Order Functions (HOF) to represent the shape of the object. We present a new generalization of this method to incorporate multiple images as input and establish a connection between visibility and reconstruction quality. This relationship forms the foundation of our view planning method where we compute viewpoints to visually cover the output of the multi-view HOF network with as few images as possible. Experiments indicate that our method provides a good compromise between online and offline methods: Similar to online methods, our method does not require the true object model as input. In terms of number of views, it is much more efficient. In most cases, its performance is comparable to the optimal offline case even on object classes the network has not been trained on.

420
An Interactive Control Approach to 3D Shape Reconstruction
2019-10-07
The ability to accurately reconstruct the 3D facets of a scene is one of the key problems in robotic vision. However, even with recent advances with machine learning, there is no high-fidelity universal 3D reconstruction method for this optimization problem as schemes often cater to specific image modalities and are often biased by scene abnormalities. Simply put, there always remains an information gap due to the dynamic nature of real-world scenarios. To this end, we demonstrate a feedback control framework which invokes operator inputs (also prone to errors) in order to augment existing reconstruction schemes. For proof-of-concept, we choose a classical region-based stereoscopic reconstruction approach and show how an ill-posed model can be augmented with operator input to be much more robust to scene artifacts. We provide necessary conditions for stability via Lyapunov analysis and perhaps more importantly, we show that the stability depends on a notion of absolute curvature. Mathematically, this aligns with previous work that has shown Ricci curvature as proxy for functional robustness of dynamical networked systems. We conclude with results that show how our method can improve standalone reconstruction schemes.

421
Kimera: an Open-Source Library for Real-Time Metric-Semantic Localization and Mapping
2019-10-06
We provide an open-source C++ library for real-time metric-semantic visual-inertial Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM). The library goes beyond existing visual and visual-inertial SLAM libraries (e.g., ORB-SLAM, VINS- Mono, OKVIS, ROVIO) by enabling mesh reconstruction and semantic labeling in 3D. Kimera is designed with modularity in mind and has four key components: a visual-inertial odometry (VIO) module for fast and accurate state estimation, a robust pose graph optimizer for global trajectory estimation, a lightweight 3D mesher module for fast mesh reconstruction, and a dense 3D metric-semantic reconstruction module. The modules can be run in isolation or in combination, hence Kimera can easily fall back to a state-of-the-art VIO or a full SLAM system. Kimera runs in real-time on a CPU and produces a 3D metric-semantic mesh from semantically labeled images, which can be obtained by modern deep learning methods. We hope that the flexibility, computational efficiency, robustness, and accuracy afforded by Kimera will build a solid basis for future metric-semantic SLAM and perception research, and will allow researchers across multiple areas (e.g., VIO, SLAM, 3D reconstruction, segmentation) to benchmark and prototype their own efforts without having to start from scratch.

422
Leveraging Vision Reconstruction Pipelines for Satellite Imagery
2019-10-07
Reconstructing 3D geometry from satellite imagery is an important topic of research. However, disparities exist between how this 3D reconstruction problem is handled in the remote sensing context and how multi-view reconstruction pipelines have been developed in the computer vision community. In this paper, we explore whether state-of-the-art reconstruction pipelines from the vision community can be applied to the satellite imagery. Along the way, we address several challenges adapting vision-based structure from motion and multi-view stereo methods. We show that vision pipelines can offer competitive speed and accuracy in the satellite context.

423
Self-supervised 3D Shape and Viewpoint Estimation from Single Images for Robotics
2019-10-17
We present a convolutional neural network for joint 3D shape prediction and viewpoint estimation from a single input image. During training, our network gets the learning signal from a silhouette of an object in the input image - a form of self-supervision. It does not require ground truth data for 3D shapes and the viewpoints. Because it relies on such a weak form of supervision, our approach can easily be applied to real-world data. We demonstrate that our method produces reasonable qualitative and quantitative results on natural images for both shape estimation and viewpoint prediction. Unlike previous approaches, our method does not require multiple views of the same object instance in the dataset, which significantly expands the applicability in practical robotics scenarios. We showcase it by using the hallucinated shapes to improve the performance on the task of grasping real-world objects both in simulation and with a PR2 robot.

424
X-Section: Cross-Section Prediction for Enhanced RGB-D Fusion
2019-10-01
Detailed 3D reconstruction is an important challenge with application to robotics, augmented and virtual reality, which has seen impressive progress throughout the past years. Advancements were driven by the availability of depth cameras (RGB-D), as well as increased compute power, e.g. in the form of GPUs -- but also thanks to inclusion of machine learning in the process. Here, we propose X-Section, an RGB-D 3D reconstruction approach that leverages deep learning to make object-level predictions about thicknesses that can be readily integrated into a volumetric multi-view fusion process, where we propose an extension to the popular KinectFusion approach. In essence, our method allows to complete shape in general indoor scenes behind what is sensed by the RGB-D camera, which may be crucial e.g. for robotic manipulation tasks or efficient scene exploration. Predicting object thicknesses rather than volumes allows us to work with comparably high spatial resolution without exploding memory and training data requirements on the employed Convolutional Neural Networks. In a series of qualitative and quantitative evaluations, we demonstrate how we accurately predict object thickness and reconstruct general 3D scenes containing multiple objects.

425
PLMP - Point-Line Minimal Problems in Complete Multi-View Visibility
2019-10-01
We present a complete classification of all minimal problems for generic arrangements of points and lines completely observed by calibrated perspective cameras. We show that there are only 30 minimal problems in total, no problems exist for more than 6 cameras, for more than 5 points, and for more than 6 lines. We present a sequence of tests for detecting minimality starting with counting degrees of freedom and ending with full symbolic and numeric verification of representative examples. For all minimal problems discovered, we present their algebraic degrees, i.e. the number of solutions, which measure their intrinsic difficulty. It shows how exactly the difficulty of problems grows with the number of views. Importantly, several new mini- mal problems have small degrees that might be practical in image matching and 3D reconstruction.

426
Unsupervised 3D Reconstruction Networks
2019-10-01
In this paper, we propose 3D unsupervised reconstruction networks (3D-URN), which reconstruct the 3D structures of instances in a given object category from their 2D feature points under an orthographic camera model. 3D-URN consists of a 3D shape reconstructor and a rotation estimator, which are trained in a fully-unsupervised manner incorporating the proposed unsupervised loss functions. The role of the 3D shape reconstructor is to reconstruct the 3D shape of an instance from its 2D feature points, and the rotation estimator infers the camera pose. After training, 3D-URN can infer the 3D structure of an unseen instance in the same category, which is not possible in the conventional schemes of non-rigid structure from motion and structure from category. The experimental result shows the state-of-the-art performance, which demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed method.

427
Occupancy Flow: 4D Reconstruction by Learning Particle Dynamics
2019-10-01
Deep learning based 3D reconstruction techniques have recently achieved impressive results. However, while state-of-the-art methods are able to output complex 3D geometry, it is not clear how to extend these results to time-varying topologies. Approaches treating each time step individually lack continuity and exhibit slow inference, while traditional 4D reconstruction methods often utilize a template model or discretize the 4D space at fixed resolution. In this work, we present Occupancy Flow, a novel spatio-temporal representation of time-varying 3D geometry with implicit correspondences. Towards this goal, we learn a temporally and spatially continuous vector field which assigns a motion vector to every point in space and time. In order to perform dense 4D reconstruction from images or sparse point clouds, we combine our method with a continuous 3D representation. Implicitly, our model yields correspondences over time, thus enabling fast inference while providing a sound physical description of the temporal dynamics. We show that our method can be used for interpolation and reconstruction tasks, and demonstrate the accuracy of the learned correspondences. We believe that Occupancy Flow is a promising new 4D representation which will be useful for a variety of spatio-temporal reconstruction tasks.

428
Accurate Monocular 3D Object Detection via Color-Embedded 3D Reconstruction for Autonomous Driving
2019-10-01
In this paper, we propose a monocular 3D object detection framework in the domain of autonomous driving. Unlike previous image-based methods which focus on RGB feature extracted from 2D images, our method solves this problem in the reconstructed 3D space in order to exploit 3D contexts explicitly. To this end, we first leverage a stand-alone module to transform the input data from 2D image plane to 3D point clouds space for a better input representation, then we perform the 3D detection using PointNet backbone net to obtain objects' 3D locations, dimensions and orientations. To enhance the discriminative capability of point clouds, we propose a multi-modal feature fusion module to embed the complementary RGB cue into the generated point clouds representation. We argue that it is more effective to infer the 3D bounding boxes from the generated 3D scene space (i.e., X,Y, Z space) compared to the image plane (i.e., R,G,B image plane). Evaluation on the challenging KITTI dataset shows that our approach boosts the performance of state-of-the-art monocular approach by a large margin.

429
Probabilistic Inference for Camera Calibration in Light Microscopy under Circular Motion
2019-10-30
Robust and accurate camera calibration is essential for 3D reconstruction in light microscopy under circular motion. Conventional methods require either accurate key point matching or precise segmentation of the axial-view images. Both remain challenging because specimens often exhibit transparency/translucency in a light microscope. To address those issues, we propose a probabilistic inference based method for the camera calibration that does not require sophisticated image pre-processing. Based on 3D projective geometry, our method assigns a probability on each of a range of voxels that cover the whole object. The probability indicates the likelihood of a voxel belonging to the object to be reconstructed. Our method maximizes a joint probability that distinguishes the object from the background. Experimental results show that the proposed method can accurately recover camera configurations in both light microscopy and natural scene imaging. Furthermore, the method can be used to produce high-fidelity 3D reconstructions and accurate 3D measurements.

430
Surface Reconstruction from 3D Line Segments
2019-11-01
In man-made environments such as indoor scenes, when point-based 3D reconstruction fails due to the lack of texture, lines can still be detected and used to support surfaces. We present a novel method for watertight piecewise-planar surface reconstruction from 3D line segments with visibility information. First, planes are extracted by a novel RANSAC approach for line segments that allows multiple shape support. Then, each 3D cell of a plane arrangement is labeled full or empty based on line attachment to planes, visibility and regularization. Experiments show the robustness to sparse input data, noise and outliers.

431
Technical Report: Co-learning of geometry and semantics for online 3D mapping
2019-11-04
This paper is a technical report about our submission for the ECCV 2018 3DRMS Workshop Challenge on Semantic 3D Reconstruction \cite{Tylecek2018rms}. In this paper, we address 3D semantic reconstruction for autonomous navigation using co-learning of depth map and semantic segmentation. The core of our pipeline is a deep multi-task neural network which tightly refines depth and also produces accurate semantic segmentation maps. Its inputs are an image and a raw depth map produced from a pair of images by standard stereo vision. The resulting semantic 3D point clouds are then merged in order to create a consistent 3D mesh, in turn used to produce dense semantic 3D reconstruction maps. The performances of each step of the proposed method are evaluated on the dataset and multiple tasks of the 3DRMS Challenge, and repeatedly surpass state-of-the-art approaches.

432
Dense 3D Reconstruction for Visual Tunnel Inspection using Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
2019-11-09
Advances in Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) opens venues for application such as tunnel inspection. Owing to its versatility to fly inside the tunnels, it can quickly identify defects and potential problems related to safety. However, long tunnels, especially with repetitive or uniform structures pose a significant problem for UAV navigation. Furthermore, post-processing visual data from the camera mounted on the UAV is required to generate useful information for the inspection task. In this work, we design a UAV with a single rotating camera to accomplish the task. Compared to other platforms, our solution can fit the stringent requirement for tunnel inspection, in terms of battery life, size and weight. While the current state-of-the-art can estimate camera pose and 3D geometry from a sequence of images, they assume large overlap, small rotational motion, and many distinct matching points between images. These assumptions severely limit their effectiveness in tunnel-like scenarios where the camera has erratic or large rotational motion, such as the one mounted on the UAV. This paper presents a novel solution which exploits Structure-from-Motion, Bundle Adjustment, and available geometry priors to robustly estimate camera pose and automatically reconstruct a fully-dense 3D scene using the least possible number of images in various challenging tunnel-like environments. We validate our system with both Virtual Reality application and experimentation with a real dataset. The results demonstrate that the proposed reconstruction along with texture mapping allows for remote navigation and inspection of tunnel-like environments, even those which are inaccessible for humans.

433
Fixing Implicit Derivatives: Trust-Region Based Learning of Continuous Energy Functions
2019-12-01
We present a new technique for the learning of continuous energy functions that
we refer to as Wibergian Learning. One common approach to inverse problems
is to cast them as an energy minimisation problem, where the minimum cost
solution found is used as an estimator of hidden parameters. Our new approach
formally characterises the dependency between weights that control the shape of
the energy function, and the location of minima, by describing minima as fixed
points of optimisation methods. This allows for the use of gradient-based end-to-
end training to integrate deep-learning and the classical inverse problem methods.
We show how our approach can be applied to obtain state-of-the-art results in the
diverse applications of tracker fusion and multiview 3D reconstruction.

434
Bat-G net: Bat-inspired High-Resolution 3D Image Reconstruction using Ultrasonic Echoes
2019-12-01
In this paper, a bat-inspired high-resolution ultrasound 3D imaging system is presented. Live bats demonstrate that the properly used ultrasound can be used to perceive 3D space. With this in mind, a neural network referred to as a Bat-G network is implemented to reconstruct the 3D representation of target objects from the hyperbolic FM (HFM) chirped ultrasonic echoes. The Bat-G network consists of an encoder emulating a bat's central auditory pathway, and a 3D graphical visualization decoder. For the acquisition of the ultrasound data, a custom-made Bat-I sensor module is used. The Bat-G network shows the uniform 3D reconstruction results and achieves precision, recall, and F1-score of 0.896, 0.899 and 0.895, respectively. The experimental results demonstrate the implementation feasibility of a high-resolution non-optical sound-based imaging system being used by live bats. The project web page (https://sites.google.com/view/batgnet) contains additional content summarizing our research.

435
Domes to Drones: Self-Supervised Active Triangulation for 3D Human Pose Reconstruction
2019-12-01
Existing state-of-the-art estimation systems can detect 2d poses of multiple people in images quite reliably. In contrast, 3d pose estimation from a single image is ill-posed due to occlusion and depth ambiguities. Assuming access to multiple cameras, or given an active system able to position itself to observe the scene from multiple viewpoints, reconstructing 3d pose from 2d measurements becomes well-posed within the framework of standard multi-view geometry. Less clear is what is an informative set of viewpoints for accurate 3d reconstruction, particularly in complex scenes, where people are occluded by others or by scene objects. In order to address the view selection problem in a principled way, we here introduce ACTOR, an active triangulation agent for 3d human pose reconstruction. Our fully trainable agent consists of a 2d pose estimation network (any of which would work) and a deep reinforcement learning-based policy for camera viewpoint selection. The policy predicts observation viewpoints, the number of which varies adaptively depending on scene content, and the associated images are fed to an underlying pose estimator. Importantly, training the policy requires no annotations - given a 2d pose estimator, ACTOR is trained in a self-supervised manner. In extensive evaluations on complex multi-people scenes filmed in a Panoptic dome, under multiple viewpoints, we compare our active triangulation agent to strong multi-view baselines, and show that ACTOR produces significantly more accurate 3d pose reconstructions. We also provide a proof-of-concept experiment indicating the potential of connecting our view selection policy to a physical drone observer.

436
GraphX-Convolution for Point Cloud Deformation in 2D-to-3D Conversion
2019-11-15
In this paper, we present a novel deep method to reconstruct a point cloud of an object from a single still image. Prior arts in the field struggle to reconstruct an accurate and scalable 3D model due to either the inefficient and expensive 3D representations, the dependency between the output and number of model parameters or the lack of a suitable computing operation. We propose to overcome these by deforming a random point cloud to the object shape through two steps: feature blending and deformation. In the first step, the global and point-specific shape features extracted from a 2D object image are blended with the encoded feature of a randomly generated point cloud, and then this mixture is sent to the deformation step to produce the final representative point set of the object. In the deformation process, we introduce a new layer termed as GraphX that considers the inter-relationship between points like common graph convolutions but operates on unordered sets. Moreover, with a simple trick, the proposed model can generate an arbitrary-sized point cloud, which is the first deep method to do so. Extensive experiments verify that we outperform existing models and halve the state-of-the-art distance score in single image 3D reconstruction.

437
BSP-Net: Generating Compact Meshes via Binary Space Partitioning
2019-11-16
Polygonal meshes are ubiquitous in the digital 3D domain, yet they have only played a minor role in the deep learning revolution. Leading methods for learning generative models of shapes rely on implicit functions, and generate meshes only after expensive iso-surfacing routines. To overcome these challenges, we are inspired by a classical spatial data structure from computer graphics, Binary Space Partitioning (BSP), to facilitate 3D learning. The core ingredient of BSP is an operation for recursive subdivision of space to obtain convex sets. By exploiting this property, we devise BSP-Net, a network that learns to represent a 3D shape via convex decomposition. Importantly, BSP-Net is unsupervised since no convex shape decompositions are needed for training. The network is trained to reconstruct a shape using a set of convexes obtained from a BSP-tree built on a set of planes. The convexes inferred by BSP-Net can be easily extracted to form a polygon mesh, without any need for iso-surfacing. The generated meshes are compact (i.e., low-poly) and well suited to represent sharp geometry; they are guaranteed to be watertight and can be easily parameterized. We also show that the reconstruction quality by BSP-Net is competitive with state-of-the-art methods while using much fewer primitives. Code is available at https://github.com/czq142857/BSP-NET-original.

438
Tigris: Architecture and Algorithms for 3D Perception in Point Clouds
2019-11-16
Machine perception applications are increasingly moving toward manipulating and processing 3D point cloud. This paper focuses on point cloud registration, a key primitive of 3D data processing widely used in high-level tasks such as odometry, simultaneous localization and mapping, and 3D reconstruction. As these applications are routinely deployed in energy-constrained environments, real-time and energy-efficient point cloud registration is critical. We present Tigris, an algorithm-architecture co-designed system specialized for point cloud registration. Through an extensive exploration of the registration pipeline design space, we find that, while different design points make vastly different trade-offs between accuracy and performance, KD-tree search is a common performance bottleneck, and thus is an ideal candidate for architectural specialization. While KD-tree search is inherently sequential, we propose an acceleration-amenable data structure and search algorithm that exposes different forms of parallelism of KD-tree search in the context of point cloud registration. The co-designed accelerator systematically exploits the parallelism while incorporating a set of architectural techniques that further improve the accelerator efficiency. Overall, Tigris achieves 77.2$\times$ speedup and 7.4$\times$ power reduction in KD-tree search over an RTX 2080 Ti GPU, which translates to a 41.7% registration performance improvements and 3.0$\times$ power reduction.

439
DR-KFS: A Differentiable Visual Similarity Metric for 3D Shape Reconstruction
2019-11-20
We introduce a differential visual similarity metric to train deep neural networks for 3D reconstruction, aimed at improving reconstruction quality. The metric compares two 3D shapes by measuring distances between multi-view images differentiably rendered from the shapes. Importantly, the image-space distance is also differentiable and measures visual similarity, rather than pixel-wise distortion. Specifically, the similarity is defined by mean-squared errors over HardNet features computed from probabilistic keypoint maps of the compared images. Our differential visual shape similarity metric can be easily plugged into various 3D reconstruction networks, replacing their distortion-based losses, such as Chamfer or Earth Mover distances, so as to optimize the network weights to produce reconstructions with better structural fidelity and visual quality. We demonstrate this both objectively, using well-known shape metrics for retrieval and classification tasks that are independent from our new metric, and subjectively through a perceptual study.

440
Superpixel Soup: Monocular Dense 3D Reconstruction of a Complex Dynamic Scene
2019-11-19
This work addresses the task of dense 3D reconstruction of a complex dynamic scene from images. The prevailing idea to solve this task is composed of a sequence of steps and is dependent on the success of several pipelines in its execution. To overcome such limitations with the existing algorithm, we propose a unified approach to solve this problem. We assume that a dynamic scene can be approximated by numerous piecewise planar surfaces, where each planar surface enjoys its own rigid motion, and the global change in the scene between two frames is as-rigid-as-possible (ARAP). Consequently, our model of a dynamic scene reduces to a soup of planar structures and rigid motion of these local planar structures. Using planar over-segmentation of the scene, we reduce this task to solving a "3D jigsaw puzzle" problem. Hence, the task boils down to correctly assemble each rigid piece to construct a 3D shape that complies with the geometry of the scene under the ARAP assumption. Further, we show that our approach provides an effective solution to the inherent scale-ambiguity in structure-from-motion under perspective projection. We provide extensive experimental results and evaluation on several benchmark datasets. Quantitative comparison with competing approaches shows state-of-the-art performance.

441
BlendedMVS: A Large-scale Dataset for Generalized Multi-view Stereo Networks
2019-11-22
While deep learning has recently achieved great success on multi-view stereo (MVS), limited training data makes the trained model hard to be generalized to unseen scenarios. Compared with other computer vision tasks, it is rather difficult to collect a large-scale MVS dataset as it requires expensive active scanners and labor-intensive process to obtain ground truth 3D structures. In this paper, we introduce BlendedMVS, a novel large-scale dataset, to provide sufficient training ground truth for learning-based MVS. To create the dataset, we apply a 3D reconstruction pipeline to recover high-quality textured meshes from images of well-selected scenes. Then, we render these mesh models to color images and depth maps. To introduce the ambient lighting information during training, the rendered color images are further blended with the input images to generate the training input. Our dataset contains over 17k high-resolution images covering a variety of scenes, including cities, architectures, sculptures and small objects. Extensive experiments demonstrate that BlendedMVS endows the trained model with significantly better generalization ability compared with other MVS datasets. The dataset and pretrained models are available at \url{https://github.com/YoYo000/BlendedMVS}.

442
PQ-NET: A Generative Part Seq2Seq Network for 3D Shapes
2019-11-25
We introduce PQ-NET, a deep neural network which represents and generates 3D shapes via sequential part assembly. The input to our network is a 3D shape segmented into parts, where each part is first encoded into a feature representation using a part autoencoder. The core component of PQ-NET is a sequence-to-sequence or Seq2Seq autoencoder which encodes a sequence of part features into a latent vector of fixed size, and the decoder reconstructs the 3D shape, one part at a time, resulting in a sequential assembly. The latent space formed by the Seq2Seq encoder encodes both part structure and fine part geometry. The decoder can be adapted to perform several generative tasks including shape autoencoding, interpolation, novel shape generation, and single-view 3D reconstruction, where the generated shapes are all composed of meaningful parts.

443
Discriminative training of conditional random fields with probably submodular constraints
2019-11-25
Problems of segmentation, denoising, registration and 3D reconstruction are often addressed with the graph cut algorithm. However, solving an unconstrained graph cut problem is NP-hard. For tractable optimization, pairwise potentials have to fulfill the submodularity inequality. In our learning paradigm, pairwise potentials are created as the dot product of a learned vector w with positive feature vectors. In order to constrain such a model to remain tractable, previous approaches have enforced the weight vector to be positive for pairwise potentials in which the labels differ, and set pairwise potentials to zero in the case that the label remains the same. Such constraints are sufficient to guarantee that the resulting pairwise potentials satisfy the submodularity inequality. However, we show that such an approach unnecessarily restricts the capacity of the learned models. Guaranteeing submodularity for all possible inputs, no matter how improbable, reduces inference error to effectively zero, but increases model error. In contrast, we relax the requirement of guaranteed submodularity to solutions that are probably approximately submodular. We show that the conceptually simple strategy of enforcing submodularity on the training examples guarantees with low sample complexity that test images will also yield submodular pairwise potentials. Results are presented in the binary and muticlass settings, showing substantial improvement from the resulting increased model capacity.

444
Deep Stereo using Adaptive Thin Volume Representation with Uncertainty Awareness
2019-11-27
We present Uncertainty-aware Cascaded Stereo Network (UCS-Net) for 3D reconstruction from multiple RGB images. Multi-view stereo (MVS) aims to reconstruct fine-grained scene geometry from multi-view images. Previous learning-based MVS methods estimate per-view depth using plane sweep volumes with a fixed depth hypothesis at each plane; this generally requires densely sampled planes for desired accuracy, and it is very hard to achieve high-resolution depth. In contrast, we propose adaptive thin volumes (ATVs); in an ATV, the depth hypothesis of each plane is spatially varying, which adapts to the uncertainties of previous per-pixel depth predictions. Our UCS-Net has three stages: the first stage processes a small standard plane sweep volume to predict low-resolution depth; two ATVs are then used in the following stages to refine the depth with higher resolution and higher accuracy. Our ATV consists of only a small number of planes; yet, it efficiently partitions local depth ranges within learned small intervals. In particular, we propose to use variance-based uncertainty estimates to adaptively construct ATVs; this differentiable process introduces reasonable and fine-grained spatial partitioning. Our multi-stage framework progressively subdivides the vast scene space with increasing depth resolution and precision, which enables scene reconstruction with high completeness and accuracy in a coarse-to-fine fashion. We demonstrate that our method achieves superior performance compared with state-of-the-art benchmarks on various challenging datasets.

445
SG-NN: Sparse Generative Neural Networks for Self-Supervised Scene Completion of RGB-D Scans
2019-11-29
We present a novel approach that converts partial and noisy RGB-D scans into high-quality 3D scene reconstructions by inferring unobserved scene geometry. Our approach is fully self-supervised and can hence be trained solely on real-world, incomplete scans. To achieve self-supervision, we remove frames from a given (incomplete) 3D scan in order to make it even more incomplete; self-supervision is then formulated by correlating the two levels of partialness of the same scan while masking out regions that have never been observed. Through generalization across a large training set, we can then predict 3D scene completion without ever seeing any 3D scan of entirely complete geometry. Combined with a new 3D sparse generative neural network architecture, our method is able to predict highly-detailed surfaces in a coarse-to-fine hierarchical fashion, generating 3D scenes at 2cm resolution, more than twice the resolution of existing state-of-the-art methods as well as outperforming them by a significant margin in reconstruction quality.

446
DeepC-MVS: Deep Confidence Prediction for Multi-View Stereo Reconstruction
2019-12-01
Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) have the potential to improve the quality of image-based 3D reconstructions. However, the use of DNNs in the context of 3D reconstruction from large and high-resolution image datasets is still an open challenge, due to memory and computational constraints. We propose a pipeline which takes advantage of DNNs to improve the quality of 3D reconstructions while being able to handle large and high-resolution datasets. In particular, we propose a confidence prediction network explicitly tailored for Multi-View Stereo (MVS) and we use it for both depth map outlier filtering and depth map refinement within our pipeline, in order to improve the quality of the final 3D reconstructions. We train our confidence prediction network on (semi-)dense ground truth depth maps from publicly available real world MVS datasets. With extensive experiments on popular benchmarks, we show that our overall pipeline can produce state-of-the-art 3D reconstructions, both qualitatively and quantitatively.

447
FlowNet3D++: Geometric Losses For Deep Scene Flow Estimation
2019-12-03
We present FlowNet3D++, a deep scene flow estimation network. Inspired by classical methods, FlowNet3D++ incorporates geometric constraints in the form of point-to-plane distance and angular alignment between individual vectors in the flow field, into FlowNet3D. We demonstrate that the addition of these geometric loss terms improves the previous state-of-art FlowNet3D accuracy from 57.85% to 63.43%. To further demonstrate the effectiveness of our geometric constraints, we propose a benchmark for flow estimation on the task of dynamic 3D reconstruction, thus providing a more holistic and practical measure of performance than the breakdown of individual metrics previously used to evaluate scene flow. This is made possible through the contribution of a novel pipeline to integrate point-based scene flow predictions into a global dense volume. FlowNet3D++ achieves up to a 15.0% reduction in reconstruction error over FlowNet3D, and up to a 35.2% improvement over KillingFusion alone. We will release our scene flow estimation code later.

448
Perspective-consistent multifocus multiview 3D reconstruction of small objects
2019-12-06
Image-based 3D reconstruction or 3D photogrammetry of small-scale objects including insects and biological specimens is challenging due to the use of high magnification lens with inherent limited depth of field, and the object's fine structures and complex surface properties. Due to these challenges, traditional 3D reconstruction techniques cannot be applied without suitable image pre-processings. One such preprocessing technique is multifocus stacking that combines a set of partially focused images captured from the same viewing angle to create a single in-focus image. Traditional multifocus image capture uses a camera on a macro rail. Furthermore, the scale and shift are not properly considered by multifocus stacking techniques. As a consequence, the resulting in-focus images contain artifacts that violate perspective image formation. A 3D reconstruction using such images will fail to produce an accurate 3D model of the object. This paper shows how this problem can be solved effectively by a new multifocus stacking procedure which includes a new Fixed-Lens Multifocus Capture and camera calibration for image scale and shift. Initial experimental results are presented to confirm our expectation and show that the camera poses of fixed-lens images are at least 3-times less noisy than those of conventional moving lens images.

449
Pyramid Multi-view Stereo Net with Self-adaptive View Aggregation
2019-12-06
n this paper, we propose an effective and efficient pyramid multi-view stereo (MVS) net with self-adaptive view aggregation for accurate and complete dense point cloud reconstruction. Different from using mean square variance to generate cost volume in previous deep-learning based MVS methods, our \textbf{VA-MVSNet} incorporates the cost variances in different views with small extra memory consumption by introducing two novel self-adaptive view aggregations: pixel-wise view aggregation and voxel-wise view aggregation. To further boost the robustness and completeness of 3D point cloud reconstruction, we extend VA-MVSNet with pyramid multi-scale images input as \textbf{PVA-MVSNet}, where multi-metric constraints are leveraged to aggregate the reliable depth estimation at the coarser scale to fill in the mismatched regions at the finer scale. Experimental results show that our approach establishes a new state-of-the-art on the \textsl{\textbf{DTU}} dataset with significant improvements in the completeness and overall quality, and has strong generalization by achieving a comparable performance as the state-of-the-art methods on the \textsl{\textbf{Tanks and Temples}} benchmark. Our codebase is at \hyperlink{https://github.com/yhw-yhw/PVAMVSNet}{https://github.com/yhw-yhw/PVAMVSNet}

450
PU-GCN: Point Cloud Upsampling using Graph Convolutional Networks
2019-11-30
The effectiveness of learning-based point cloud upsampling pipelines heavily relies on the upsampling modules and feature extractors used therein. For the point upsampling module, we propose a novel model called NodeShuffle, which uses a Graph Convolutional Network (GCN) to better encode local point information from point neighborhoods. NodeShuffle is versatile and can be incorporated into any point cloud upsampling pipeline. Extensive experiments show how NodeShuffle consistently improves state-of-the-art upsampling methods. For feature extraction, we also propose a new multi-scale point feature extractor, called Inception DenseGCN. By aggregating features at multiple scales, this feature extractor enables further performance gain in the final upsampled point clouds. We combine Inception DenseGCN with NodeShuffle into a new point upsampling pipeline called PU-GCN. PU-GCN sets new state-of-art performance with much fewer parameters and more efficient inference.

451
Video Motion Capture from the Part Confidence Maps of Multi-Camera Images by Spatiotemporal Filtering Using the Human Skeletal Model
2019-12-09
This paper discusses video motion capture, namely, 3D reconstruction of human motion from multi-camera images. After the Part Confidence Maps are computed from each camera image, the proposed spatiotemporal filter is applied to deliver the human motion data with accuracy and smoothness for human motion analysis. The spatiotemporal filter uses the human skeleton and mixes temporal smoothing in two-time inverse kinematics computations. The experimental results show that the mean per joint position error was 26.1mm for regular motions and 38.8mm for inverted motions.

452
Bundle Adjustment Revisited
2019-12-09
3D reconstruction has been developing all these two decades, from moderate to medium size and to large scale. It's well known that bundle adjustment plays an important role in 3D reconstruction, mainly in Structure from Motion(SfM) and Simultaneously Localization and Mapping(SLAM). While bundle adjustment optimizes camera parameters and 3D points as a non-negligible final step, it suffers from memory and efficiency requirements in very large scale reconstruction. In this paper, we study the development of bundle adjustment elaborately in both conventional and distributed approaches. The detailed derivation and pseudo code are also given in this paper.

453
3D-GMNet: Single-View 3D Shape Recovery as A Gaussian Mixture
2019-12-10
In this paper, we introduce 3D-GMNet, a deep neural network for 3D object shape reconstruction from a single image. As the name suggests, 3D-GMNet recovers 3D shape as a Gaussian mixture. In contrast to voxels, point clouds, or meshes, a Gaussian mixture representation provides an analytical expression with a small memory footprint while accurately representing the target 3D shape. At the same time, it offers a number of additional advantages including instant pose estimation and controllable level-of-detail reconstruction, while also enabling interpretation as a point cloud, volume, and a mesh model. We train 3D-GMNet end-to-end with single input images and corresponding 3D models by introducing two novel loss functions, a 3D Gaussian mixture loss and a 2D multi-view loss, which collectively enable accurate shape reconstruction as kernel density estimation. We thoroughly evaluate the effectiveness of 3D-GMNet with synthetic and real images of objects. The results show accurate reconstruction with a compact representation that also realizes novel applications of single-image 3D reconstruction.

454
DeepDeform: Learning Non-rigid RGB-D Reconstruction with Semi-supervised Data
2019-12-09
Applying data-driven approaches to non-rigid 3D reconstruction has been difficult, which we believe can be attributed to the lack of a large-scale training corpus. Unfortunately, this method fails for important cases such as highly non-rigid deformations. We first address this problem of lack of data by introducing a novel semi-supervised strategy to obtain dense inter-frame correspondences from a sparse set of annotations. This way, we obtain a large dataset of 400 scenes, over 390,000 RGB-D frames, and 5,533 densely aligned frame pairs; in addition, we provide a test set along with several metrics for evaluation. Based on this corpus, we introduce a data-driven non-rigid feature matching approach, which we integrate into an optimization-based reconstruction pipeline. Here, we propose a new neural network that operates on RGB-D frames, while maintaining robustness under large non-rigid deformations and producing accurate predictions. Our approach significantly outperforms existing non-rigid reconstruction methods that do not use learned data terms, as well as learning-based approaches that only use self-supervision.

455
Deep-Learning Assisted High-Resolution Binocular Stereo Depth Reconstruction
2019-11-23
This work presents dense stereo reconstruction using high-resolution images for infrastructure inspections. The state-of-the-art stereo reconstruction methods, both learning and non-learning ones, consume too much computational resource on high-resolution data. Recent learning-based methods achieve top ranks on most benchmarks. However, they suffer from the generalization issue due to lack of task-specific training data. We propose to use a less resource demanding non-learning method, guided by a learning-based model, to handle high-resolution images and achieve accurate stereo reconstruction. The deep-learning model produces an initial disparity prediction with uncertainty for each pixel of the down-sampled stereo image pair. The uncertainty serves as a self-measurement of its generalization ability and the per-pixel searching range around the initially predicted disparity. The downstream process performs a modified version of the Semi-Global Block Matching method with the up-sampled per-pixel searching range. The proposed deep-learning assisted method is evaluated on the Middlebury dataset and high-resolution stereo images collected by our customized binocular stereo camera. The combination of learning and non-learning methods achieves better performance on 12 out of 15 cases of the Middlebury dataset. In our infrastructure inspection experiments, the average 3D reconstruction error is less than 0.004m.

456
One Framework to Register Them All: PointNet Encoding for Point Cloud Alignment
2019-12-12
PointNet has recently emerged as a popular representation for unstructured point cloud data, allowing application of deep learning to tasks such as object detection, segmentation and shape completion. However, recent works in literature have shown the sensitivity of the PointNet representation to pose misalignment. This paper presents a novel framework that uses PointNet encoding to align point clouds and perform registration for applications such as 3D reconstruction, tracking and pose estimation. We develop a framework that compares PointNet features of template and source point clouds to find the transformation that aligns them accurately. In doing so, we avoid computationally expensive correspondence finding steps, that are central to popular registration methods such as ICP and its variants. Depending on the prior information about the shape of the object formed by the point clouds, our framework can produce approaches that are shape specific or general to unseen shapes. Our framework produces approaches that are robust to noise and initial misalignment in data and work robustly with sparse as well as partial point clouds. We perform extensive simulation and real-world experiments to validate the efficacy of our approach and compare the performance with state-of-art approaches. Code is available at https://github.com/vinits5/pointnet-registrationframework.

457
Cascade Cost Volume for High-Resolution Multi-View Stereo and Stereo Matching
2019-12-13
The deep multi-view stereo (MVS) and stereo matching approaches generally construct 3D cost volumes to regularize and regress the output depth or disparity. These methods are limited when high-resolution outputs are needed since the memory and time costs grow cubically as the volume resolution increases. In this paper, we propose a both memory and time efficient cost volume formulation that is complementary to existing multi-view stereo and stereo matching approaches based on 3D cost volumes. First, the proposed cost volume is built upon a standard feature pyramid encoding geometry and context at gradually finer scales. Then, we can narrow the depth (or disparity) range of each stage by the depth (or disparity) map from the previous stage. With gradually higher cost volume resolution and adaptive adjustment of depth (or disparity) intervals, the output is recovered in a coarser to fine manner. We apply the cascade cost volume to the representative MVS-Net, and obtain a 23.1% improvement on DTU benchmark (1st place), with 50.6% and 74.2% reduction in GPU memory and run-time. It is also the state-of-the-art learning-based method on Tanks and Temples benchmark. The statistics of accuracy, run-time and GPU memory on other representative stereo CNNs also validate the effectiveness of our proposed method.

458
Differentiable Volumetric Rendering: Learning Implicit 3D Representations without 3D Supervision
2019-12-16
Learning-based 3D reconstruction methods have shown impressive results. However, most methods require 3D supervision which is often hard to obtain for real-world datasets. Recently, several works have proposed differentiable rendering techniques to train reconstruction models from RGB images. Unfortunately, these approaches are currently restricted to voxel- and mesh-based representations, suffering from discretization or low resolution. In this work, we propose a differentiable rendering formulation for implicit shape and texture representations. Implicit representations have recently gained popularity as they represent shape and texture continuously. Our key insight is that depth gradients can be derived analytically using the concept of implicit differentiation. This allows us to learn implicit shape and texture representations directly from RGB images. We experimentally show that our single-view reconstructions rival those learned with full 3D supervision. Moreover, we find that our method can be used for multi-view 3D reconstruction, directly resulting in watertight meshes.

459
SDFDiff: Differentiable Rendering of Signed Distance Fields for 3D Shape Optimization
2019-12-15
We propose SDFDiff, a novel approach for image-based shape optimization using differentiable rendering of 3D shapes represented by signed distance functions (SDFs). Compared to other representations, SDFs have the advantage that they can represent shapes with arbitrary topology, and that they guarantee watertight surfaces. We apply our approach to the problem of multi-view 3D reconstruction, where we achieve high reconstruction quality and can capture complex topology of 3D objects. In addition, we employ a multi-resolution strategy to obtain a robust optimization algorithm. We further demonstrate that our SDF-based differentiable renderer can be integrated with deep learning models, which opens up options for learning approaches on 3D objects without 3D supervision. In particular, we apply our method to single-view 3D reconstruction and achieve state-of-the-art results.

460
C-Flow: Conditional Generative Flow Models for Images and 3D Point Clouds
2019-12-15
Flow-based generative models have highly desirable properties like exact log-likelihood evaluation and exact latent-variable inference, however they are still in their infancy and have not received as much attention as alternative generative models. In this paper, we introduce C-Flow, a novel conditioning scheme that brings normalizing flows to an entirely new scenario with great possibilities for multi-modal data modeling. C-Flow is based on a parallel sequence of invertible mappings in which a source flow guides the target flow at every step, enabling fine-grained control over the generation process. We also devise a new strategy to model unordered 3D point clouds that, in combination with the conditioning scheme, makes it possible to address 3D reconstruction from a single image and its inverse problem of rendering an image given a point cloud. We demonstrate our conditioning method to be very adaptable, being also applicable to image manipulation, style transfer and multi-modal image-to-image mapping in a diversity of domains, including RGB images, segmentation maps, and edge masks.

461
Cost Volume Pyramid Based Depth Inference for Multi-View Stereo
2019-12-18
We propose a cost volume-based neural network for depth inference from multi-view images. We demonstrate that building a cost volume pyramid in a coarse-to-fine manner instead of constructing a cost volume at a fixed resolution leads to a compact, lightweight network and allows us inferring high resolution depth maps to achieve better reconstruction results. To this end, we first build a cost volume based on uniform sampling of fronto-parallel planes across the entire depth range at the coarsest resolution of an image. Then, given current depth estimate, we construct new cost volumes iteratively on the pixelwise depth residual to perform depth map refinement. While sharing similar insight with Point-MVSNet as predicting and refining depth iteratively, we show that working on cost volume pyramid can lead to a more compact, yet efficient network structure compared with the Point-MVSNet on 3D points. We further provide detailed analyses of the relation between (residual) depth sampling and image resolution, which serves as a principle for building compact cost volume pyramid. Experimental results on benchmark datasets show that our model can perform 6x faster and has similar performance as state-of-the-art methods. Code is available at https://github.com/JiayuYANG/CVP-MVSNet

462
Surface HOF: Surface Reconstruction from a Single Image Using Higher Order Function Networks
2019-12-18
We address the problem of generating a high-resolution surface reconstruction from a single image. Our approach is to learn a Higher Order Function (HOF) which takes an image of an object as input and generates a mapping function. The mapping function takes samples from a canonical domain (e.g. the unit sphere) and maps each sample to a local tangent plane on the 3D reconstruction of the object. Each tangent plane is represented as an origin point and a normal vector at that point. By efficiently learning a continuous mapping function, the surface can be generated at arbitrary resolution in contrast to other methods which generate fixed resolution outputs. We present the Surface HOF in which both the higher order function and the mapping function are represented as neural networks, and train the networks to generate reconstructions of PointNet objects. Experiments show that Surface HOF is more accurate and uses more efficient representations than other state of the art methods for surface reconstruction. Surface HOF is also easier to train: it requires minimal input pre-processing and output post-processing and generates surface representations that are more parameter efficient. Its accuracy and convenience make Surface HOF an appealing method for single image reconstruction.

463
Learning to Generate Dense Point Clouds with Textures on Multiple Categories
2019-12-22
3D reconstruction from images is a core problem in computer vision. With recent advances in deep learning, it has become possible to recover plausible 3D shapes even from single RGB images for the first time. However, obtaining detailed geometry and texture for objects with arbitrary topology remains challenging. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for reconstructing point clouds from RGB images. Unlike other methods, we can recover dense point clouds with hundreds of thousands of points, and we also include RGB textures. In addition, we train our model on multiple categories which leads to superior generalization to unseen categories compared to previous techniques. We achieve this using a two-stage approach, where we first infer an object coordinate map from the input RGB image, and then obtain the final point cloud using a reprojection and completion step. We show results on standard benchmarks that demonstrate the advantages of our technique. Code is available at https://github.com/TaoHuUMD/3D-Reconstruction.

464
Graph-Based Parallel Large Scale Structure from Motion
2019-12-23
While Structure from Motion (SfM) achieves great success in 3D reconstruction, it still meets challenges on large scale scenes. In this work, large scale SfM is deemed as a graph problem, and we tackle it in a divide-and-conquer manner. Firstly, the images clustering algorithm divides images into clusters with strong connectivity, leading to robust local reconstructions. Then followed with an image expansion step, the connection and completeness of scenes are enhanced by expanding along with a maximum spanning tree. After local reconstructions, we construct a minimum spanning tree (MinST) to find accurate similarity transformations. Then the MinST is transformed into a Minimum Height Tree (MHT) to find a proper anchor node and is further utilized to prevent error accumulation. When evaluated on different kinds of datasets, our approach shows superiority over the state-of-the-art in accuracy and efficiency. Our algorithm is open-sourced at https://github.com/AIBluefisher/GraphSfM.

465
Learning 3D Human Shape and Pose from Dense Body Parts
2019-12-31
Reconstructing 3D human shape and pose from monocular images is challenging despite the promising results achieved by the most recent learning-based methods. The commonly occurred misalignment comes from the facts that the mapping from images to the model space is highly non-linear and the rotation-based pose representation of body models is prone to result in the drift of joint positions. In this work, we investigate learning 3D human shape and pose from dense correspondences of body parts and propose a Decompose-and-aggregate Network (DaNet) to address these issues. DaNet adopts the dense correspondence maps, which densely build a bridge between 2D pixels and 3D vertices, as intermediate representations to facilitate the learning of 2D-to-3D mapping. The prediction modules of DaNet are decomposed into one global stream and multiple local streams to enable global and fine-grained perceptions for the shape and pose predictions, respectively. Messages from local streams are further aggregated to enhance the robust prediction of the rotation-based poses, where a position-aided rotation feature refinement strategy is proposed to exploit spatial relationships between body joints. Moreover, a Part-based Dropout (PartDrop) strategy is introduced to drop out dense information from intermediate representations during training, encouraging the network to focus on more complementary body parts as well as neighboring position features. The efficacy of the proposed method is validated on both indoor and real-world datasets including Human3.6M, UP3D, COCO, and 3DPW, showing that our method could significantly improve the reconstruction performance in comparison with previous state-of-the-art methods. Our code is publicly available at https://hongwenzhang.github.io/dense2mesh .

466
A Two-step Calibration Method for Unfocused Light Field Camera Based on Projection Model Analysis
2020-01-11
Accurately calibrating light field camera is essential to its applications. Rapid progress has been made in this area in the past decades. In this paper, detailed analysis was first performed towards the state of the art projection models for calibration which were further interpreted in three representations, including the correspondence between rays and pixels, 3D physical points and pixels and between 3D physical points and 3D signal structure of the captured light field. Based on the analysis, parameters in the projection model were grouped into direction parameter set and depth parameter set. A two-step calibration method was then proposed with each step dealing with each set of parameters. The proposed method is able to reuse traditional camera calibration methods for the direction parameter set. A simply raw image-based calibration of depth parameter set was further proposed. Systematic validations were conducted to evaluate the performance of the proposed calibration method. Experimental results show that the accuracy and robustness of the proposed method outperforms its counterparts under various benchmark criteria.

467
RoutedFusion: Learning Real-time Depth Map Fusion
2020-01-13
The efficient fusion of depth maps is a key part of most state-of-the-art 3D reconstruction methods. Besides requiring high accuracy, these depth fusion methods need to be scalable and real-time capable. To this end, we present a novel real-time capable machine learning-based method for depth map fusion. Similar to the seminal depth map fusion approach by Curless and Levoy, we only update a local group of voxels to ensure real-time capability. Instead of a simple linear fusion of depth information, we propose a neural network that predicts non-linear updates to better account for typical fusion errors. Our network is composed of a 2D depth routing network and a 3D depth fusion network which efficiently handle sensor-specific noise and outliers. This is especially useful for surface edges and thin objects for which the original approach suffers from thickening artifacts. Our method outperforms the traditional fusion approach and related learned approaches on both synthetic and real data. We demonstrate the performance of our method in reconstructing fine geometric details from noise and outlier contaminated data on various scenes.

468
Synergetic Reconstruction from 2D Pose and 3D Motion for Wide-Space Multi-Person Video Motion Capture in the Wild
2020-01-16
Although many studies have investigated markerless motion capture, the technology has not been applied to real sports or concerts. In this paper, we propose a markerless motion capture method with spatiotemporal accuracy and smoothness from multiple cameras in wide-space and multi-person environments. The proposed method predicts each person's 3D pose and determines the bounding box of multi-camera images small enough. This prediction and spatiotemporal filtering based on human skeletal model enables 3D reconstruction of the person and demonstrates high-accuracy. The accurate 3D reconstruction is then used to predict the bounding box of each camera image in the next frame. This is feedback from the 3D motion to 2D pose, and provides a synergetic effect on the overall performance of video motion capture. We evaluated the proposed method using various datasets and a real sports field. The experimental results demonstrate that the mean per joint position error (MPJPE) is 31.5 mm and the percentage of correct parts (PCP) is 99.5% for five people dynamically moving while satisfying the range of motion (RoM). Video demonstration, datasets, and additional materials are posted on our project page.

469
Deep NRSfM++: Towards Unsupervised 2D-3D Lifting in the Wild
2020-01-27
The recovery of 3D shape and pose from 2D landmarks stemming from a large ensemble of images can be viewed as a non-rigid structure from motion (NRSfM) problem. Classical NRSfM approaches, however, are problematic as they rely on heuristic priors on the 3D structure (e.g. low rank) that do not scale well to large datasets. Learning-based methods are showing the potential to reconstruct a much broader set of 3D structures than classical methods -- dramatically expanding the importance of NRSfM to atemporal unsupervised 2D to 3D lifting. Hitherto, these learning approaches have not been able to effectively model perspective cameras or handle missing/occluded points -- limiting their applicability to in-the-wild datasets. In this paper, we present a generalized strategy for improving learning-based NRSfM methods to tackle the above issues. Our approach, Deep NRSfM++, achieves state-of-the-art performance across numerous large-scale benchmarks, outperforming both classical and learning-based 2D-3D lifting methods.

470
Self-Supervised Object-in-Gripper Segmentation from Robotic Motions
2020-02-11
Accurate object segmentation is a crucial task in the context of robotic manipulation. However, creating sufficient annotated training data for neural networks is particularly time consuming and often requires manual labeling. To this end, we propose a simple, yet robust solution for learning to segment unknown objects grasped by a robot. Specifically, we exploit motion and temporal cues in RGB video sequences. Using optical flow estimation we first learn to predict segmentation masks of our given manipulator. Then, these annotations are used in combination with motion cues to automatically distinguish between background, manipulator and unknown, grasped object. In contrast to existing systems our approach is fully self-supervised and independent of precise camera calibration, 3D models or potentially imperfect depth data. We perform a thorough comparison with alternative baselines and approaches from literature. The object masks and views are shown to be suitable training data for segmentation networks that generalize to novel environments and also allow for watertight 3D reconstruction.

471
HRINet: Alternative Supervision Network for High-resolution CT image Interpolation
2020-02-11
Image interpolation in medical area is of high importance as most 3D biomedical volume images are sampled where the distance between consecutive slices significantly greater than the in-plane pixel size due to radiation dose or scanning time. Image interpolation creates a number of new slices between known slices in order to obtain an isotropic volume image. The results can be used for the higher quality of 3D reconstruction and visualization of human body structures. Semantic interpolation on the manifold has been proved to be very useful for smoothing image interpolation. Nevertheless, all previous methods focused on low-resolution image interpolation, and most of them work poorly on high-resolution image. We propose a novel network, High Resolution Interpolation Network (HRINet), aiming at producing high-resolution CT image interpolations. We combine the idea of ACAI and GANs, and propose a novel idea of alternative supervision method by applying supervised and unsupervised training alternatively to raise the accuracy of human organ structures in CT while keeping high quality. We compare an MSE based and a perceptual based loss optimizing methods for high quality interpolation, and show the tradeoff between the structural correctness and sharpness. Our experiments show the great improvement on 256 2 and 5122 images quantitatively and qualitatively.

472
PeeledHuman: Robust Shape Representation for Textured 3D Human Body Reconstruction
2020-02-16
We introduce PeeledHuman - a novel shape representation of the human body that is robust to self-occlusions. PeeledHuman encodes the human body as a set of Peeled Depth and RGB maps in 2D, obtained by performing ray-tracing on the 3D body model and extending each ray beyond its first intersection. This formulation allows us to handle self-occlusions efficiently compared to other representations. Given a monocular RGB image, we learn these Peeled maps in an end-to-end generative adversarial fashion using our novel framework - PeelGAN. We train PeelGAN using a 3D Chamfer loss and other 2D losses to generate multiple depth values per-pixel and a corresponding RGB field per-vertex in a dual-branch setup. In our simple non-parametric solution, the generated Peeled Depth maps are back-projected to 3D space to obtain a complete textured 3D shape. The corresponding RGB maps provide vertex-level texture details. We compare our method with current parametric and non-parametric methods in 3D reconstruction and find that we achieve state-of-the-art-results. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our representation on publicly available BUFF and MonoPerfCap datasets as well as loose clothing data collected by our calibrated multi-Kinect setup.

473
3D Dynamic Scene Graphs: Actionable Spatial Perception with Places, Objects, and Humans
2020-02-15
We present a unified representation for actionable spatial perception: 3D Dynamic Scene Graphs. Scene graphs are directed graphs where nodes represent entities in the scene (e.g. objects, walls, rooms), and edges represent relations (e.g. inclusion, adjacency) among nodes. Dynamic scene graphs (DSGs) extend this notion to represent dynamic scenes with moving agents (e.g. humans, robots), and to include actionable information that supports planning and decision-making (e.g. spatio-temporal relations, topology at different levels of abstraction). Our second contribution is to provide the first fully automatic Spatial PerceptIon eNgine(SPIN) to build a DSG from visual-inertial data. We integrate state-of-the-art techniques for object and human detection and pose estimation, and we describe how to robustly infer object, robot, and human nodes in crowded scenes. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first paper that reconciles visual-inertial SLAM and dense human mesh tracking. Moreover, we provide algorithms to obtain hierarchical representations of indoor environments (e.g. places, structures, rooms) and their relations. Our third contribution is to demonstrate the proposed spatial perception engine in a photo-realistic Unity-based simulator, where we assess its robustness and expressiveness. Finally, we discuss the implications of our proposal on modern robotics applications. 3D Dynamic Scene Graphs can have a profound impact on planning and decision-making, human-robot interaction, long-term autonomy, and scene prediction. A video abstract is available at https://youtu.be/SWbofjhyPzI

474
Deep Learning in Medical Ultrasound Image Segmentation: a Review
2020-02-18
Applying machine learning technologies, especially deep learning, into medical image segmentation is being widely studied because of its state-of-the-art performance and results. It can be a key step to provide a reliable basis for clinical diagnosis, such as 3D reconstruction of human tissues, image-guided interventions, image analyzing and visualization. In this review article, deep-learning-based methods for ultrasound image segmentation are categorized into six main groups according to their architectures and training at first. Secondly, for each group, several current representative algorithms are selected, introduced, analyzed and summarized in detail. In addition, common evaluation methods for image segmentation and ultrasound image segmentation datasets are summarized. Further, the performance of the current methods and their evaluations are reviewed. In the end, the challenges and potential research directions for medical ultrasound image segmentation are discussed.

475
Globally optimal point set registration by joint symmetry plane fitting
2020-02-19
The present work proposes a solution to the challenging problem of registering two partial point sets of the same object with very limited overlap. We leverage the fact that most objects found in man-made environments contain a plane of symmetry. By reflecting the points of each set with respect to the plane of symmetry, we can largely increase the overlap between the sets and therefore boost the registration process. However, prior knowledge about the plane of symmetry is generally unavailable or at least very hard to find, especially with limited partial views, and finding this plane could strongly benefit from a prior alignment of the partial point sets. We solve this chicken-and-egg problem by jointly optimizing the relative pose and symmetry plane parameters, and notably do so under global optimality by employing the branch-and-bound (BnB) paradigm. Our results demonstrate a great improvement over the current state-of-the-art in globally optimal point set registration for common objects. We furthermore show an interesting application of our method to dense 3D reconstruction of scenes with repetitive objects.

476
Fast and Regularized Reconstruction of Building Faades from Street-View Images using Binary Integer Programming
2020-02-20
Regularized arrangement of primitives on building fa\c{c}ades to aligned locations and consistent sizes is important towards structured reconstruction of urban environment. Mixed integer linear programing was used to solve the problem, however, it is extreamly time consuming even for state-of-the-art commercial solvers. Aiming to alleviate this issue, we cast the problem into binary integer programming, which omits the requirements for real value parameters and is more efficient to be solved . Firstly, the bounding boxes of the primitives are detected using the YOLOv3 architecture in real-time. Secondly, the coordinates of the upper left corners and the sizes of the bounding boxes are automatically clustered in a binary integer programming optimization, which jointly considers the geometric fitness, regularity and additional constraints; this step does not require \emph{a priori} knowledge, such as the number of clusters or pre-defined grammars. Finally, the regularized bounding boxes can be directly used to guide the fa\c{c}ade reconstruction in an interactive envinronment. Experimental evaluations have revealed that the accuracies for the extraction of primitives are above 0.82, which is sufficient for the following 3D reconstruction. The proposed approach only takes about $ 10\% $ to $ 20\% $ of the runtime than previous approach and reduces the diversity of the bounding boxes to about $20\%$ to $50\%$.

477
Leveraging Photogrammetric Mesh Models for Aerial-Ground Feature Point Matching Toward Integrated 3D Reconstruction
2020-02-21
Integration of aerial and ground images has been proved as an efficient approach to enhance the surface reconstruction in urban environments. However, as the first step, the feature point matching between aerial and ground images is remarkably difficult, due to the large differences in viewpoint and illumination conditions. Previous studies based on geometry-aware image rectification have alleviated this problem, but the performance and convenience of this strategy is limited by several flaws, e.g. quadratic image pairs, segregated extraction of descriptors and occlusions. To address these problems, we propose a novel approach: leveraging photogrammetric mesh models for aerial-ground image matching. The methods of this proposed approach have linear time complexity with regard to the number of images, can explicitly handle low overlap using multi-view images and can be directly injected into off-the-shelf structure-from-motion (SfM) and multi-view stereo (MVS) solutions. First, aerial and ground images are reconstructed separately and initially co-registered through weak georeferencing data. Second, aerial models are rendered to the initial ground views, in which the color, depth and normal images are obtained. Then, the synthesized color images and the corresponding ground images are matched by comparing the descriptors, filtered by local geometrical information, and then propagated to the aerial views using depth images and patch-based matching. Experimental evaluations using various datasets confirm the superior performance of the proposed methods in aerial-ground image matching. In addition, incorporation of the existing SfM and MVS solutions into these methods enables more complete and accurate models to be directly obtained.

478
DeepCalib: a deep learning approach for automatic intrinsic calibration of wide field-of-view cameras
2018-12-15
Calibration of wide field-of-view cameras is a fundamental step for numerous visual media production applications, such as 3D reconstruction, image undistortion, augmented reality and camera motion estimation. However, existing calibration methods require multiple images of a calibration pattern (typically a checkerboard), assume the presence of lines, require manual interaction and/or need an image sequence. In contrast, we present a novel fully automatic deep learning-based approach that overcomes all these limitations and works with a single image of general scenes. Our approach builds upon the recent developments in deep Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN): our network automatically estimates the intrinsic parameters of the camera (focal length and distortion parameter) from a single input image. In order to train the CNN, we leverage the great amount of omnidirectional images available on the Internet to automatically generate a large-scale dataset composed of millions of wide field-of-view images with ground truth intrinsic parameters. Experiments successfully demonstrated the quality of our results, both quantitatively and qualitatively.

479
Extremely Dense Point Correspondences using a Learned Feature Descriptor
2020-03-02
High-quality 3D reconstructions from endoscopy video play an important role in many clinical applications, including surgical navigation where they enable direct video-CT registration. While many methods exist for general multi-view 3D reconstruction, these methods often fail to deliver satisfactory performance on endoscopic video. Part of the reason is that local descriptors that establish pair-wise point correspondences, and thus drive reconstruction, struggle when confronted with the texture-scarce surface of anatomy. Learning-based dense descriptors usually have larger receptive fields enabling the encoding of global information, which can be used to disambiguate matches. In this work, we present an effective self-supervised training scheme and novel loss design for dense descriptor learning. In direct comparison to recent local and dense descriptors on an in-house sinus endoscopy dataset, we demonstrate that our proposed dense descriptor can generalize to unseen patients and scopes, thereby largely improving the performance of Structure from Motion (SfM) in terms of model density and completeness. We also evaluate our method on a public dense optical flow dataset and a small-scale SfM public dataset to further demonstrate the effectiveness and generality of our method. The source code is available at https://github.com/lppllppl920/DenseDescriptorLearning-Pytorch.

480
Implicit Functions in Feature Space for 3D Shape Reconstruction and Completion
2020-03-03
While many works focus on 3D reconstruction from images, in this paper, we focus on 3D shape reconstruction and completion from a variety of 3D inputs, which are deficient in some respect: low and high resolution voxels, sparse and dense point clouds, complete or incomplete. Processing of such 3D inputs is an increasingly important problem as they are the output of 3D scanners, which are becoming more accessible, and are the intermediate output of 3D computer vision algorithms. Recently, learned implicit functions have shown great promise as they produce continuous reconstructions. However, we identified two limitations in reconstruction from 3D inputs: 1) details present in the input data are not retained, and 2) poor reconstruction of articulated humans. To solve this, we propose Implicit Feature Networks (IF-Nets), which deliver continuous outputs, can handle multiple topologies, and complete shapes for missing or sparse input data retaining the nice properties of recent learned implicit functions, but critically they can also retain detail when it is present in the input data, and can reconstruct articulated humans. Our work differs from prior work in two crucial aspects. First, instead of using a single vector to encode a 3D shape, we extract a learnable 3-dimensional multi-scale tensor of deep features, which is aligned with the original Euclidean space embedding the shape. Second, instead of classifying x-y-z point coordinates directly, we classify deep features extracted from the tensor at a continuous query point. We show that this forces our model to make decisions based on global and local shape structure, as opposed to point coordinates, which are arbitrary under Euclidean transformations. Experiments demonstrate that IF-Nets clearly outperform prior work in 3D object reconstruction in ShapeNet, and obtain significantly more accurate 3D human reconstructions.

481
Single-View 3D Object Reconstruction from Shape Priors in Memory
2020-03-08
Existing methods for single-view 3D object reconstruction directly learn to transform image features into 3D representations. However, these methods are vulnerable to images containing noisy backgrounds and heavy occlusions because the extracted image features do not contain enough information to reconstruct high-quality 3D shapes. Humans routinely use incomplete or noisy visual cues from an image to retrieve similar 3D shapes from their memory and reconstruct the 3D shape of an object. Inspired by this, we propose a novel method, named Mem3D, that explicitly constructs shape priors to supplement the missing information in the image. Specifically, the shape priors are in the forms of "image-voxel" pairs in the memory network, which is stored by a well-designed writing strategy during training. We also propose a voxel triplet loss function that helps to retrieve the precise 3D shapes that are highly related to the input image from shape priors. The LSTM-based shape encoder is introduced to extract information from the retrieved 3D shapes, which are useful in recovering the 3D shape of an object that is heavily occluded or in complex environments. Experimental results demonstrate that Mem3D significantly improves reconstruction quality and performs favorably against state-of-the-art methods on the ShapeNet and Pix3D datasets.

482
STD-Net: Structure-preserving and Topology-adaptive Deformation Network for 3D Reconstruction from a Single Image
2020-03-07
3D reconstruction from a single view image is a long-standing prob-lem in computer vision. Various methods based on different shape representations(such as point cloud or volumetric representations) have been proposed. However,the 3D shape reconstruction with fine details and complex structures are still chal-lenging and have not yet be solved. Thanks to the recent advance of the deepshape representations, it becomes promising to learn the structure and detail rep-resentation using deep neural networks. In this paper, we propose a novel methodcalled STD-Net to reconstruct the 3D models utilizing the mesh representationthat is well suitable for characterizing complex structure and geometry details.To reconstruct complex 3D mesh models with fine details, our method consists of(1) an auto-encoder network for recovering the structure of an object with bound-ing box representation from a single image, (2) a topology-adaptive graph CNNfor updating vertex position for meshes of complex topology, and (3) an unifiedmesh deformation block that deforms the structural boxes into structure-awaremeshed models. Experimental results on the images from ShapeNet show that ourproposed STD-Net has better performance than other state-of-the-art methods onreconstructing 3D objects with complex structures and fine geometric details.

483
Convolutional Occupancy Networks
2020-03-10
Recently, implicit neural representations have gained popularity for learning-based 3D reconstruction. While demonstrating promising results, most implicit approaches are limited to comparably simple geometry of single objects and do not scale to more complicated or large-scale scenes. The key limiting factor of implicit methods is their simple fully-connected network architecture which does not allow for integrating local information in the observations or incorporating inductive biases such as translational equivariance. In this paper, we propose Convolutional Occupancy Networks, a more flexible implicit representation for detailed reconstruction of objects and 3D scenes. By combining convolutional encoders with implicit occupancy decoders, our model incorporates inductive biases, enabling structured reasoning in 3D space. We investigate the effectiveness of the proposed representation by reconstructing complex geometry from noisy point clouds and low-resolution voxel representations. We empirically find that our method enables the fine-grained implicit 3D reconstruction of single objects, scales to large indoor scenes, and generalizes well from synthetic to real data.

484
Uncertainty depth estimation with gated images for 3D reconstruction
2020-03-11
Gated imaging is an emerging sensor technology for self-driving cars that provides high-contrast images even under adverse weather influence. It has been shown that this technology can even generate high-fidelity dense depth maps with accuracy comparable to scanning LiDAR systems. In this work, we extend the recent Gated2Depth framework with aleatoric uncertainty providing an additional confidence measure for the depth estimates. This confidence can help to filter out uncertain estimations in regions without any illumination. Moreover, we show that training on dense depth maps generated by LiDAR depth completion algorithms can further improve the performance.

485
PL${}_{1}$P -- Point-line Minimal Problems under Partial Visibility in Three Views
2020-03-10
We present a complete classification of minimal problems for generic arrangements of points and lines in space observed partially by three calibrated perspective cameras when each line is incident to at most one point. This is a large class of interesting minimal problems that allows missing observations in images due to occlusions and missed detections. There is an infinite number of such minimal problems; however, we show that they can be reduced to 140616 equivalence classes by removing superfluous features and relabeling the cameras. We also introduce camera-minimal problems, which are practical for designing minimal solvers, and show how to pick a simplest camera-minimal problem for each minimal problem. This simplification results in 74575 equivalence classes. Only 76 of these were known; the rest are new. In order to identify problems that have potential for practical solving of image matching and 3D reconstruction, we present several smaller natural subfamilies of camera-minimal problems as well as compute solution counts for all camera-minimal problems which have less than 300 solutions for generic data.

486
Self-supervised Single-view 3D Reconstruction via Semantic Consistency
2020-03-13
We learn a self-supervised, single-view 3D reconstruction model that predicts the 3D mesh shape, texture and camera pose of a target object with a collection of 2D images and silhouettes. The proposed method does not necessitate 3D supervision, manually annotated keypoints, multi-view images of an object or a prior 3D template. The key insight of our work is that objects can be represented as a collection of deformable parts, and each part is semantically coherent across different instances of the same category (e.g., wings on birds and wheels on cars). Therefore, by leveraging self-supervisedly learned part segmentation of a large collection of category-specific images, we can effectively enforce semantic consistency between the reconstructed meshes and the original images. This significantly reduces ambiguities during joint prediction of shape and camera pose of an object, along with texture. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to try and solve the single-view reconstruction problem without a category-specific template mesh or semantic keypoints. Thus our model can easily generalize to various object categories without such labels, e.g., horses, penguins, etc. Through a variety of experiments on several categories of deformable and rigid objects, we demonstrate that our unsupervised method performs comparably if not better than existing category-specific reconstruction methods learned with supervision.

487
Graph Attention Network based Pruning for Reconstructing 3D Liver Vessel Morphology from Contrasted CT Images
2020-03-18
With the injection of contrast material into blood vessels, multi-phase contrasted CT images can enhance the visibility of vessel networks in the human body. Reconstructing the 3D geometric morphology of liver vessels from the contrasted CT images can enable multiple liver preoperative surgical planning applications. Automatic reconstruction of liver vessel morphology remains a challenging problem due to the morphological complexity of liver vessels and the inconsistent vessel intensities among different multi-phase contrasted CT images. On the other side, high integrity is required for the 3D reconstruction to avoid decision making biases. In this paper, we propose a framework for liver vessel morphology reconstruction using both a fully convolutional neural network and a graph attention network. A fully convolutional neural network is first trained to produce the liver vessel centerline heatmap. An over-reconstructed liver vessel graph model is then traced based on the heatmap using an image processing based algorithm. We use a graph attention network to prune the false-positive branches by predicting the presence probability of each segmented branch in the initial reconstruction using the aggregated CNN features. We evaluated the proposed framework on an in-house dataset consisting of 418 multi-phase abdomen CT images with contrast. The proposed graph network pruning improves the overall reconstruction F1 score by 6.4% over the baseline. It also outperformed the other state-of-the-art curvilinear structure reconstruction algorithms.

488
Reconstructing Sinus Anatomy from Endoscopic Video -- Towards a Radiation-free Approach for Quantitative Longitudinal Assessment
2020-03-18
Reconstructing accurate 3D surface models of sinus anatomy directly from an endoscopic video is a promising avenue for cross-sectional and longitudinal analysis to better understand the relationship between sinus anatomy and surgical outcomes. We present a patient-specific, learning-based method for 3D reconstruction of sinus surface anatomy directly and only from endoscopic videos. We demonstrate the effectiveness and accuracy of our method on in and ex vivo data where we compare to sparse reconstructions from Structure from Motion, dense reconstruction from COLMAP, and ground truth anatomy from CT. Our textured reconstructions are watertight and enable measurement of clinically relevant parameters in good agreement with CT. The source code is available at https://github.com/lppllppl920/DenseReconstruction-Pytorch.

489
Oral-3D: Reconstructing the 3D Bone Structure of Oral Cavity from 2D Panoramic X-ray
2020-03-18
Panoramic X-ray (PX) provides a 2D picture of the patient's mouth in a panoramic view to help dentists observe the invisible disease inside the gum. However, it provides limited 2D information compared with cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT), another dental imaging method that generates a 3D picture of the oral cavity but with more radiation dose and a higher price. Consequently, it is of great interest to reconstruct the 3D structure from a 2D X-ray image, which can greatly explore the application of X-ray imaging in dental surgeries. In this paper, we propose a framework, named Oral-3D, to reconstruct the 3D oral cavity from a single PX image and prior information of the dental arch. Specifically, we first train a generative model to learn the cross-dimension transformation from 2D to 3D. Then we restore the shape of the oral cavity with a deformation module with the dental arch curve, which can be obtained simply by taking a photo of the patient's mouth. To be noted, Oral-3D can restore both the density of bony tissues and the curved mandible surface. Experimental results show that Oral-3D can efficiently and effectively reconstruct the 3D oral structure and show critical information in clinical applications, e.g., tooth pulling and dental implants. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to explore this domain transformation problem between these two imaging methods.

490
Atlas: End-to-End 3D Scene Reconstruction from Posed Images
2020-03-23
We present an end-to-end 3D reconstruction method for a scene by directly regressing a truncated signed distance function (TSDF) from a set of posed RGB images. Traditional approaches to 3D reconstruction rely on an intermediate representation of depth maps prior to estimating a full 3D model of a scene. We hypothesize that a direct regression to 3D is more effective. A 2D CNN extracts features from each image independently which are then back-projected and accumulated into a voxel volume using the camera intrinsics and extrinsics. After accumulation, a 3D CNN refines the accumulated features and predicts the TSDF values. Additionally, semantic segmentation of the 3D model is obtained without significant computation. This approach is evaluated on the Scannet dataset where we significantly outperform state-of-the-art baselines (deep multiview stereo followed by traditional TSDF fusion) both quantitatively and qualitatively. We compare our 3D semantic segmentation to prior methods that use a depth sensor since no previous work attempts the problem with only RGB input.

491
ASLFeat: Learning Local Features of Accurate Shape and Localization
2020-03-23
This work focuses on mitigating two limitations in the joint learning of local feature detectors and descriptors. First, the ability to estimate the local shape (scale, orientation, etc.) of feature points is often neglected during dense feature extraction, while the shape-awareness is crucial to acquire stronger geometric invariance. Second, the localization accuracy of detected keypoints is not sufficient to reliably recover camera geometry, which has become the bottleneck in tasks such as 3D reconstruction. In this paper, we present ASLFeat, with three light-weight yet effective modifications to mitigate above issues. First, we resort to deformable convolutional networks to densely estimate and apply local transformation. Second, we take advantage of the inherent feature hierarchy to restore spatial resolution and low-level details for accurate keypoint localization. Finally, we use a peakiness measurement to relate feature responses and derive more indicative detection scores. The effect of each modification is thoroughly studied, and the evaluation is extensively conducted across a variety of practical scenarios. State-of-the-art results are reported that demonstrate the superiority of our methods.

492
Multiview Neural Surface Reconstruction by Disentangling Geometry and Appearance
2020-03-22
In this work we address the challenging problem of multiview 3D surface reconstruction. We introduce a neural network architecture that simultaneously learns the unknown geometry, camera parameters, and a neural renderer that approximates the light reflected from the surface towards the camera. The geometry is represented as a zero level-set of a neural network, while the neural renderer, derived from the rendering equation, is capable of (implicitly) modeling a wide set of lighting conditions and materials. We trained our network on real world 2D images of objects with different material properties, lighting conditions, and noisy camera initializations from the DTU MVS dataset. We found our model to produce state of the art 3D surface reconstructions with high fidelity, resolution and detail.

493
Deep Local Shapes: Learning Local SDF Priors for Detailed 3D Reconstruction
2020-03-24
Efficiently reconstructing complex and intricate surfaces at scale is a long-standing goal in machine perception. To address this problem we introduce Deep Local Shapes (DeepLS), a deep shape representation that enables encoding and reconstruction of high-quality 3D shapes without prohibitive memory requirements. DeepLS replaces the dense volumetric signed distance function (SDF) representation used in traditional surface reconstruction systems with a set of locally learned continuous SDFs defined by a neural network, inspired by recent work such as DeepSDF. Unlike DeepSDF, which represents an object-level SDF with a neural network and a single latent code, we store a grid of independent latent codes, each responsible for storing information about surfaces in a small local neighborhood. This decomposition of scenes into local shapes simplifies the prior distribution that the network must learn, and also enables efficient inference. We demonstrate the effectiveness and generalization power of DeepLS by showing object shape encoding and reconstructions of full scenes, where DeepLS delivers high compression, accuracy, and local shape completion.

494
Weakly-supervised 3D coronary artery reconstruction from two-view angiographic images
2020-03-26
The reconstruction of three-dimensional models of coronary arteries is of great significance for the localization, evaluation and diagnosis of stenosis and plaque in the arteries, as well as for the assisted navigation of interventional surgery. In the clinical practice, physicians use a few angles of coronary angiography to capture arterial images, so it is of great practical value to perform 3D reconstruction directly from coronary angiography images. However, this is a very difficult computer vision task due to the complex shape of coronary blood vessels, as well as the lack of data set and key point labeling. With the rise of deep learning, more and more work is being done to reconstruct 3D models of human organs from medical images using deep neural networks. We propose an adversarial and generative way to reconstruct three dimensional coronary artery models, from two different views of angiographic images of coronary arteries. With 3D fully supervised learning and 2D weakly supervised learning schemes, we obtained reconstruction accuracies that outperform state-of-art techniques.

495
Learning Implicit Surface Light Fields
2020-03-27
Implicit representations of 3D objects have recently achieved impressive results on learning-based 3D reconstruction tasks. While existing works use simple texture models to represent object appearance, photo-realistic image synthesis requires reasoning about the complex interplay of light, geometry and surface properties. In this work, we propose a novel implicit representation for capturing the visual appearance of an object in terms of its surface light field. In contrast to existing representations, our implicit model represents surface light fields in a continuous fashion and independent of the geometry. Moreover, we condition the surface light field with respect to the location and color of a small light source. Compared to traditional surface light field models, this allows us to manipulate the light source and relight the object using environment maps. We further demonstrate the capabilities of our model to predict the visual appearance of an unseen object from a single real RGB image and corresponding 3D shape information. As evidenced by our experiments, our model is able to infer rich visual appearance including shadows and specular reflections. Finally, we show that the proposed representation can be embedded into a variational auto-encoder for generating novel appearances that conform to the specified illumination conditions.

496
Image compression optimized for 3D reconstruction by utilizing deep neural networks
2020-03-27
Computer vision tasks are often expected to be executed on compressed images. Classical image compression standards like JPEG 2000 are widely used. However, they do not account for the specific end-task at hand. Motivated by works on recurrent neural network (RNN)-based image compression and three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction, we propose unified network architectures to solve both tasks jointly. These joint models provide image compression tailored for the specific task of 3D reconstruction. Images compressed by our proposed models, yield 3D reconstruction performance superior as compared to using JPEG 2000 compression. Our models significantly extend the range of compression rates for which 3D reconstruction is possible. We also show that this can be done highly efficiently at almost no additional cost to obtain compression on top of the computation already required for performing the 3D reconstruction task.

497
Learning Unsupervised Hierarchical Part Decomposition of 3D Objects from a Single RGB Image
2020-04-02
Humans perceive the 3D world as a set of distinct objects that are characterized by various low-level (geometry, reflectance) and high-level (connectivity, adjacency, symmetry) properties. Recent methods based on convolutional neural networks (CNNs) demonstrated impressive progress in 3D reconstruction, even when using a single 2D image as input. However, the majority of these methods focuses on recovering the local 3D geometry of an object without considering its part-based decomposition or relations between parts. We address this challenging problem by proposing a novel formulation that allows to jointly recover the geometry of a 3D object as a set of primitives as well as their latent hierarchical structure without part-level supervision. Our model recovers the higher level structural decomposition of various objects in the form of a binary tree of primitives, where simple parts are represented with fewer primitives and more complex parts are modeled with more components. Our experiments on the ShapeNet and D-FAUST datasets demonstrate that considering the organization of parts indeed facilitates reasoning about 3D geometry.

498
End-To-End Convolutional Neural Network for 3D Reconstruction of Knee Bones From Bi-Planar X-Ray Images
2020-04-02
We present an end-to-end Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) approach for 3D reconstruction of knee bones directly from two bi-planar X-ray images. Clinically, capturing the 3D models of the bones is crucial for surgical planning, implant fitting, and postoperative evaluation. X-ray imaging significantly reduces the exposure of patients to ionizing radiation compared to Computer Tomography (CT) imaging, and is much more common and inexpensive compared to Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanners. However, retrieving 3D models from such 2D scans is extremely challenging. In contrast to the common approach of statistically modeling the shape of each bone, our deep network learns the distribution of the bones' shapes directly from the training images. We train our model with both supervised and unsupervised losses using Digitally Reconstructed Radiograph (DRR) images generated from CT scans. To apply our model to X-Ray data, we use style transfer to transform between X-Ray and DRR modalities. As a result, at test time, without further optimization, our solution directly outputs a 3D reconstruction from a pair of bi-planar X-ray images, while preserving geometric constraints. Our results indicate that our deep learning model is very efficient, generalizes well and produces high quality reconstructions.

499
Occlusion-Aware Depth Estimation with Adaptive Normal Constraints
2020-04-02
We present a new learning-based method for multi-frame depth estimation from a color video, which is a fundamental problem in scene understanding, robot navigation or handheld 3D reconstruction. While recent learning-based methods estimate depth at high accuracy, 3D point clouds exported from their depth maps often fail to preserve important geometric feature (e.g., corners, edges, planes) of man-made scenes. Widely-used pixel-wise depth errors do not specifically penalize inconsistency on these features. These inaccuracies are particularly severe when subsequent depth reconstructions are accumulated in an attempt to scan a full environment with man-made objects with this kind of features. Our depth estimation algorithm therefore introduces a Combined Normal Map (CNM) constraint, which is designed to better preserve high-curvature features and global planar regions. In order to further improve the depth estimation accuracy, we introduce a new occlusion-aware strategy that aggregates initial depth predictions from multiple adjacent views into one final depth map and one occlusion probability map for the current reference view. Our method outperforms the state-of-the-art in terms of depth estimation accuracy, and preserves essential geometric features of man-made indoor scenes much better than other algorithms.

500
Differential 3D Facial Recognition: Adding 3D to Your State-of-the-Art 2D Method
2020-04-03
Active illumination is a prominent complement to enhance 2D face recognition and make it more robust, e.g., to spoofing attacks and low-light conditions. In the present work we show that it is possible to adopt active illumination to enhance state-of-the-art 2D face recognition approaches with 3D features, while bypassing the complicated task of 3D reconstruction. The key idea is to project over the test face a high spatial frequency pattern, which allows us to simultaneously recover real 3D information plus a standard 2D facial image. Therefore, state-of-the-art 2D face recognition solution can be transparently applied, while from the high frequency component of the input image, complementary 3D facial features are extracted. Experimental results on ND-2006 dataset show that the proposed ideas can significantly boost face recognition performance and dramatically improve the robustness to spoofing attacks.

501
ARCH: Animatable Reconstruction of Clothed Humans
2020-04-08
In this paper, we propose ARCH (Animatable Reconstruction of Clothed Humans), a novel end-to-end framework for accurate reconstruction of animation-ready 3D clothed humans from a monocular image. Existing approaches to digitize 3D humans struggle to handle pose variations and recover details. Also, they do not produce models that are animation ready. In contrast, ARCH is a learned pose-aware model that produces detailed 3D rigged full-body human avatars from a single unconstrained RGB image. A Semantic Space and a Semantic Deformation Field are created using a parametric 3D body estimator. They allow the transformation of 2D/3D clothed humans into a canonical space, reducing ambiguities in geometry caused by pose variations and occlusions in training data. Detailed surface geometry and appearance are learned using an implicit function representation with spatial local features. Furthermore, we propose additional per-pixel supervision on the 3D reconstruction using opacity-aware differentiable rendering. Our experiments indicate that ARCH increases the fidelity of the reconstructed humans. We obtain more than 50% lower reconstruction errors for standard metrics compared to state-of-the-art methods on public datasets. We also show numerous qualitative examples of animated, high-quality reconstructed avatars unseen in the literature so far.

502
Few-Shot Single-View 3-D Object Reconstruction with Compositional Priors
2020-04-14
The impressive performance of deep convolutional neural networks in single-view 3D reconstruction suggests that these models perform non-trivial reasoning about the 3D structure of the output space. However, recent work has challenged this belief, showing that complex encoder-decoder architectures perform similarly to nearest-neighbor baselines or simple linear decoder models that exploit large amounts of per category data in standard benchmarks. On the other hand settings where 3D shape must be inferred for new categories with few examples are more natural and require models that generalize about shapes. In this work we demonstrate experimentally that naive baselines do not apply when the goal is to learn to reconstruct novel objects using very few examples, and that in a \emph{few-shot} learning setting, the network must learn concepts that can be applied to new categories, avoiding rote memorization. To address deficiencies in existing approaches to this problem, we propose three approaches that efficiently integrate a class prior into a 3D reconstruction model, allowing to account for intra-class variability and imposing an implicit compositional structure that the model should learn. Experiments on the popular ShapeNet database demonstrate that our method significantly outperform existing baselines on this task in the few-shot setting.

503
Calculating Pose with Vanishing Points of Visual-Sphere Perspective Model
2020-04-19
The goal of the proposed method is to directly obtain a pose matrix of a known rectangular target, without estimation, using geometric techniques. This method is specifically tailored for real-time, extreme imaging setups exceeding 180{\deg} field of view, such as a fish-eye camera view. The introduced algorithm employs geometric algebra to determine the pose for a pair of coplanar parallel lines (ideally a tangent pair as in a rectangle). This is achieved by computing vanishing points on a visual unit sphere, which correspond to pose matrix vectors. The algorithm can determine pose for an extremely distorted view source without prior rectification, owing to a visual-sphere perspective model mapping of view coordinates. Mapping can be performed using either a perspective map lookup or a parametric universal perspective distortion model, which is also presented in this paper. The outcome is a robust pose matrix computation that can be executed on an embedded system using a microcontroller, offering high accuracy and low latency. This method can be further extended to a cubic target setup for comprehensive camera calibration. It may also prove valuable in other applications requiring low latency and extreme viewing angles.

504
Through the Looking Glass: Neural 3D Reconstruction of Transparent Shapes
2020-04-22
Recovering the 3D shape of transparent objects using a small number of unconstrained natural images is an ill-posed problem. Complex light paths induced by refraction and reflection have prevented both traditional and deep multiview stereo from solving this challenge. We propose a physically-based network to recover 3D shape of transparent objects using a few images acquired with a mobile phone camera, under a known but arbitrary environment map. Our novel contributions include a normal representation that enables the network to model complex light transport through local computation, a rendering layer that models refractions and reflections, a cost volume specifically designed for normal refinement of transparent shapes and a feature mapping based on predicted normals for 3D point cloud reconstruction. We render a synthetic dataset to encourage the model to learn refractive light transport across different views. Our experiments show successful recovery of high-quality 3D geometry for complex transparent shapes using as few as 5-12 natural images. Code and data are publicly released.

505
Stomach 3D Reconstruction Based on Virtual Chromoendoscopic Image Generation
2020-04-26
Gastric endoscopy is a standard clinical process that enables medical practitioners to diagnose various lesions inside a patient's stomach. If any lesion is found, it is very important to perceive the location of the lesion relative to the global view of the stomach. Our previous research showed that this could be addressed by reconstructing the whole stomach shape from chromoendoscopic images using a structure-from-motion (SfM) pipeline, in which indigo carmine (IC) blue dye sprayed images were used to increase feature matches for SfM by enhancing stomach surface's textures. However, spraying the IC dye to the whole stomach requires additional time, labor, and cost, which is not desirable for patients and practitioners. In this paper, we propose an alternative way to achieve whole stomach 3D reconstruction without the need of the IC dye by generating virtual IC-sprayed (VIC) images based on image-to-image style translation trained on unpaired real no-IC and IC-sprayed images. We have specifically investigated the effect of input and output color channel selection for generating the VIC images and found that translating no-IC green-channel images to IC-sprayed red-channel images gives the best SfM reconstruction result.

506
Reconstruct, Rasterize and Backprop: Dense shape and pose estimation from a single image
2020-04-25
This paper presents a new system to obtain dense object reconstructions along with 6-DoF poses from a single image. Geared towards high fidelity reconstruction, several recent approaches leverage implicit surface representations and deep neural networks to estimate a 3D mesh of an object, given a single image. However, all such approaches recover only the shape of an object; the reconstruction is often in a canonical frame, unsuitable for downstream robotics tasks. To this end, we leverage recent advances in differentiable rendering (in particular, rasterization) to close the loop with 3D reconstruction in camera frame. We demonstrate that our approach---dubbed reconstruct, rasterize and backprop (RRB) achieves significantly lower pose estimation errors compared to prior art, and is able to recover dense object shapes and poses from imagery. We further extend our results to an (offline) setup, where we demonstrate a dense monocular object-centric egomotion estimation system.

507
Multi-view data capture using edge-synchronised mobiles
2020-05-07
Multi-view data capture permits free-viewpoint video (FVV) content creation. To this end, several users must capture video streams, calibrated in both time and pose, framing the same object/scene, from different viewpoints. New-generation network architectures (e.g. 5G) promise lower latency and larger bandwidth connections supported by powerful edge computing, properties that seem ideal for reliable FVV capture. We have explored this possibility, aiming to remove the need for bespoke synchronisation hardware when capturing a scene from multiple viewpoints, making it possible through off-the-shelf mobiles. We propose a novel and scalable data capture architecture that exploits edge resources to synchronise and harvest frame captures. We have designed an edge computing unit that supervises the relaying of timing triggers to and from multiple mobiles, in addition to synchronising frame harvesting. We empirically show the benefits of our edge computing unit by analysing latencies and show the quality of 3D reconstruction outputs against an alternative and popular centralised solution based on Unity3D.

508
FroDO: From Detections to 3D Objects
2020-05-11
Object-oriented maps are important for scene understanding since they jointly capture geometry and semantics, allow individual instantiation and meaningful reasoning about objects. We introduce FroDO, a method for accurate 3D reconstruction of object instances from RGB video that infers object location, pose and shape in a coarse-to-fine manner. Key to FroDO is to embed object shapes in a novel learnt space that allows seamless switching between sparse point cloud and dense DeepSDF decoding. Given an input sequence of localized RGB frames, FroDO first aggregates 2D detections to instantiate a category-aware 3D bounding box per object. A shape code is regressed using an encoder network before optimizing shape and pose further under the learnt shape priors using sparse and dense shape representations. The optimization uses multi-view geometric, photometric and silhouette losses. We evaluate on real-world datasets, including Pix3D, Redwood-OS, and ScanNet, for single-view, multi-view, and multi-object reconstruction.

509
A Simple and Scalable Shape Representation for 3D Reconstruction
2020-05-10
Deep learning applied to the reconstruction of 3D shapes has seen growing interest. A popular approach to 3D reconstruction and generation in recent years has been the CNN encoder-decoder model usually applied in voxel space. However, this often scales very poorly with the resolution limiting the effectiveness of these models. Several sophisticated alternatives for decoding to 3D shapes have been proposed typically relying on complex deep learning architectures for the decoder model. In this work, we show that this additional complexity is not necessary, and that we can actually obtain high quality 3D reconstruction using a linear decoder, obtained from principal component analysis on the signed distance function (SDF) of the surface. This approach allows easily scaling to larger resolutions. We show in multiple experiments that our approach is competitive with state-of-the-art methods. It also allows the decoder to be fine-tuned on the target task using a loss designed specifically for SDF transforms, obtaining further gains.

510
HDD-Net: Hybrid Detector Descriptor with Mutual Interactive Learning
2020-05-12
Local feature extraction remains an active research area due to the advances in fields such as SLAM, 3D reconstructions, or AR applications. The success in these applications relies on the performance of the feature detector and descriptor. While the detector-descriptor interaction of most methods is based on unifying in single network detections and descriptors, we propose a method that treats both extractions independently and focuses on their interaction in the learning process rather than by parameter sharing. We formulate the classical hard-mining triplet loss as a new detector optimisation term to refine candidate positions based on the descriptor map. We propose a dense descriptor that uses a multi-scale approach and a hybrid combination of hand-crafted and learned features to obtain rotation and scale robustness by design. We evaluate our method extensively on different benchmarks and show improvements over the state of the art in terms of image matching on HPatches and 3D reconstruction quality while keeping on par on camera localisation tasks.

511
Unpaired Motion Style Transfer from Video to Animation
2020-05-12
Transferring the motion style from one animation clip to another, while preserving the motion content of the latter, has been a long-standing problem in character animation. Most existing data-driven approaches are supervised and rely on paired data, where motions with the same content are performed in different styles. In addition, these approaches are limited to transfer of styles that were seen during training. In this paper, we present a novel data-driven framework for motion style transfer, which learns from an unpaired collection of motions with style labels, and enables transferring motion styles not observed during training. Furthermore, our framework is able to extract motion styles directly from videos, bypassing 3D reconstruction, and apply them to the 3D input motion. Our style transfer network encodes motions into two latent codes, for content and for style, each of which plays a different role in the decoding (synthesis) process. While the content code is decoded into the output motion by several temporal convolutional layers, the style code modifies deep features via temporally invariant adaptive instance normalization (AdaIN). Moreover, while the content code is encoded from 3D joint rotations, we learn a common embedding for style from either 3D or 2D joint positions, enabling style extraction from videos. Our results are comparable to the state-of-the-art, despite not requiring paired training data, and outperform other methods when transferring previously unseen styles. To our knowledge, we are the first to demonstrate style transfer directly from videos to 3D animations - an ability which enables one to extend the set of style examples far beyond motions captured by MoCap systems.

512
DeepFaceFlow: In-the-wild Dense 3D Facial Motion Estimation
2020-05-14
Dense 3D facial motion capture from only monocular in-the-wild pairs of RGB images is a highly challenging problem with numerous applications, ranging from facial expression recognition to facial reenactment. In this work, we propose DeepFaceFlow, a robust, fast, and highly-accurate framework for the dense estimation of 3D non-rigid facial flow between pairs of monocular images. Our DeepFaceFlow framework was trained and tested on two very large-scale facial video datasets, one of them of our own collection and annotation, with the aid of occlusion-aware and 3D-based loss function. We conduct comprehensive experiments probing different aspects of our approach and demonstrating its improved performance against state-of-the-art flow and 3D reconstruction methods. Furthermore, we incorporate our framework in a full-head state-of-the-art facial video synthesis method and demonstrate the ability of our method in better representing and capturing the facial dynamics, resulting in a highly-realistic facial video synthesis. Given registered pairs of images, our framework generates 3D flow maps at ~60 fps.

513
Deep Learning Guided Building Reconstruction from Satellite Imagery-derived Point Clouds
2020-05-19
3D urban reconstruction of buildings from remotely sensed imagery has drawn significant attention during the past two decades. While aerial imagery and LiDAR provide higher resolution, satellite imagery is cheaper and more efficient to acquire for large scale need. However, the high, orbital altitude of satellite observation brings intrinsic challenges, like unpredictable atmospheric effect, multi view angles, significant radiometric differences due to the necessary multiple views, diverse land covers and urban structures in a scene, small base-height ratio or narrow field of view, all of which may degrade 3D reconstruction quality. To address these major challenges, we present a reliable and effective approach for building model reconstruction from the point clouds generated from multi-view satellite images. We utilize multiple types of primitive shapes to fit the input point cloud. Specifically, a deep-learning approach is adopted to distinguish the shape of building roofs in complex and yet noisy scenes. For points that belong to the same roof shape, a multi-cue, hierarchical RANSAC approach is proposed for efficient and reliable segmenting and reconstructing the building point cloud. Experimental results over four selected urban areas (0.34 to 2.04 sq km in size) demonstrate the proposed method can generate detailed roof structures under noisy data environments. The average successful rate for building shape recognition is 83.0%, while the overall completeness and correctness are over 70% with reference to ground truth created from airborne lidar. As the first effort to address the public need of large scale city model generation, the development is deployed as open source software.

514
AutoSweep: Recovering 3D Editable Objectsfrom a Single Photograph
2020-05-27
This paper presents a fully automatic framework for extracting editable 3D objects directly from a single photograph. Unlike previous methods which recover either depth maps, point clouds, or mesh surfaces, we aim to recover 3D objects with semantic parts and can be directly edited. We base our work on the assumption that most human-made objects are constituted by parts and these parts can be well represented by generalized primitives. Our work makes an attempt towards recovering two types of primitive-shaped objects, namely, generalized cuboids and generalized cylinders. To this end, we build a novel instance-aware segmentation network for accurate part separation. Our GeoNet outputs a set of smooth part-level masks labeled as profiles and bodies. Then in a key stage, we simultaneously identify profile-body relations and recover 3D parts by sweeping the recognized profile along their body contour and jointly optimize the geometry to align with the recovered masks. Qualitative and quantitative experiments show that our algorithm can recover high quality 3D models and outperforms existing methods in both instance segmentation and 3D reconstruction. The dataset and code of AutoSweep are available at https://chenxin.tech/AutoSweep.html.

515
D2D: Keypoint Extraction with Describe to Detect Approach
2020-05-27
In this paper, we present a novel approach that exploits the information within the descriptor space to propose keypoint locations. Detect then describe, or detect and describe jointly are two typical strategies for extracting local descriptors. In contrast, we propose an approach that inverts this process by first describing and then detecting the keypoint locations. % Describe-to-Detect (D2D) leverages successful descriptor models without the need for any additional training. Our method selects keypoints as salient locations with high information content which is defined by the descriptors rather than some independent operators. We perform experiments on multiple benchmarks including image matching, camera localisation, and 3D reconstruction. The results indicate that our method improves the matching performance of various descriptors and that it generalises across methods and tasks.

516
An Efficient Planar Bundle Adjustment Algorithm
2020-05-30
This paper presents an efficient algorithm for the least-squares problem using the point-to-plane cost, which aims to jointly optimize depth sensor poses and plane parameters for 3D reconstruction. We call this least-squares problem \textbf{Planar Bundle Adjustment} (PBA), due to the similarity between this problem and the original Bundle Adjustment (BA) in visual reconstruction. As planes ubiquitously exist in the man-made environment, they are generally used as landmarks in SLAM algorithms for various depth sensors. PBA is important to reduce drift and improve the quality of the map. However, directly adopting the well-established BA framework in visual reconstruction will result in a very inefficient solution for PBA. This is because a 3D point only has one observation at a camera pose. In contrast, a depth sensor can record hundreds of points in a plane at a time, which results in a very large nonlinear least-squares problem even for a small-scale space. Fortunately, we find that there exist a special structure of the PBA problem. We introduce a reduced Jacobian matrix and a reduced residual vector, and prove that they can replace the original Jacobian matrix and residual vector in the generally adopted Levenberg-Marquardt (LM) algorithm. This significantly reduces the computational cost. Besides, when planes are combined with other features for 3D reconstruction, the reduced Jacobian matrix and residual vector can also replace the corresponding parts derived from planes. Our experimental results verify that our algorithm can significantly reduce the computational time compared to the solution using the traditional BA framework. Besides, our algorithm is faster, more accuracy, and more robust to initialization errors compared to the start-of-the-art solution using the plane-to-plane cost

517
Mapillary Street-Level Sequences: A Dataset for Lifelong Place Recognition
2020-06-01
Lifelong place recognition is an essential and challenging task in computer vision with vast applications in robust localization and efficient large-scale 3D reconstruction. Progress is currently hindered by a lack of large, diverse, publicly available datasets. We contribute with Mapillary Street-Level Sequences (SLS), a large dataset for urban and suburban place recognition from image sequences. It contains more than 1.6 million images curated from the Mapillary collaborative mapping platform. The dataset is orders of magnitude larger than current data sources, and is designed to reflect the diversities of true lifelong learning. It features images from 30 major cities across six continents, hundreds of distinct cameras, and substantially different viewpoints and capture times, spanning all seasons over a nine year period. All images are geo-located with GPS and compass, and feature high-level attributes such as road type. We propose a set of benchmark tasks designed to push state-of-the-art performance and provide baseline studies. We show that current state-of-the-art methods still have a long way to go, and that the lack of diversity in existing datasets have prevented generalization to new environments. The dataset and benchmarks are available for academic research.

518
Joint Texture and Geometry Optimization for RGB-D Reconstruction
2020-06-01
Due to inevitable noises and quantization error, the reconstructed 3D models via RGB-D sensors always accompany geometric error and camera drifting, which consequently lead to blurring and unnatural texture mapping results. Most of the 3D reconstruction methods focus on either geometry refinement or texture improvement respectively, which subjectively decouples the inter-relationship between geometry and texture. In this paper, we propose a novel approach that can jointly optimize the camera poses, texture and geometry of the reconstructed model, and color consistency between the key-frames. Instead of computing Shape-From-Shading (SFS) expensively, our method directly optimizes the reconstructed mesh according to color and geometric consistency and high-boost normal cues, which can effectively overcome the texture-copy problem generated by SFS and achieve more detailed shape reconstruction. As the joint optimization involves multiple correlated terms, therefore, we further introduce an iterative framework to interleave the optimal state. The experiments demonstrate that our method can recover not only fine-scale geometry but also high-fidelity texture.

519
DeepDeform: Learning Non-Rigid RGB-D Reconstruction With Semi-Supervised Data
2020-06-01
Applying data-driven approaches to non-rigid 3D reconstruction has been difficult, which we believe can be attributed to the lack of a large-scale training corpus. Unfortunately, this method fails for important cases such as highly non-rigid deformations. We first address this problem of lack of data by introducing a novel semi-supervised strategy to obtain dense inter-frame correspondences from a sparse set of annotations. This way, we obtain a large dataset of 400 scenes, over 390,000 RGB-D frames, and 5,533 densely aligned frame pairs; in addition, we provide a test set along with several metrics for evaluation. Based on this corpus, we introduce a data-driven non-rigid feature matching approach, which we integrate into an optimization-based reconstruction pipeline. Here, we propose a new neural network that operates on RGB-D frames, while maintaining robustness under large non-rigid deformations and producing accurate predictions. Our approach significantly outperforms existing non-rigid reconstruction methods that do not use learned data terms, as well as learning-based approaches that only use self-supervision.

520
Three-Dimensional Reconstruction of Human Interactions
2020-06-01
Understanding 3d human interactions is fundamental for fine grained scene analysis and behavioural modeling. However, most of the existing models focus on analyzing a single person in isolation, and those who process several people focus largely on resolving multi-person data association, rather than inferring interactions. This may lead to incorrect, lifeless 3d estimates, that miss the subtle human contact aspects--the essence of the event--and are of little use for detailed behavioral understanding. This paper addresses such issues and makes several contributions: (1) we introduce models for interaction signature estimation (ISP) encompassing contact detection, segmentation, and 3d contact signature prediction; (2) we show how such components can be leveraged in order to produce augmented losses that ensure contact consistency during 3d reconstruction; (3) we construct several large datasets for learning and evaluating 3d contact prediction and reconstruction methods; specifically, we introduce CHI3D, a lab-based accurate 3d motion capture dataset with 631 sequences containing 2,525 contact events, 728,664 ground truth 3d poses, as well as FlickrCI3D, a dataset of 11,216 images, with 14,081 processed pairs of people, and 81,233 facet-level surface correspondences within 138,213 selected contact regions. Finally, (4) we present models and baselines to illustrate how contact estimation supports meaningful 3d reconstruction where essential interactions are captured. Models and data are made available for research purposes at http://vision.imar.ro/ci3d.

521
Robust Learning Through Cross-Task Consistency
2020-06-01
Visual perception entails solving a wide set of tasks (e.g., object detection, depth estimation, etc). The predictions made for different tasks out of one image are not independent, and therefore, are expected to be 'consistent'. We propose a flexible and fully computational framework for learning while enforcing Cross-Task Consistency (X-TAC). The proposed formulation is based on 'inference path invariance' over an arbitrary graph of prediction domains. We observe that learning with cross-task consistency leads to more accurate predictions, better generalization to out-of-distribution samples, and improved sample efficiency. This framework also leads to a powerful unsupervised quantity, called 'Consistency Energy, based on measuring the intrinsic consistency of the system. Consistency Energy well correlates with the supervised error (r=0.67), thus it can be employed as an unsupervised robustness metric as well as for detection of out-of-distribution inputs (AUC=0.99). The evaluations were performed on multiple datasets, including Taskonomy, Replica, CocoDoom, and ApolloScape.

522
FroDO: From Detections to 3D Objects
2020-06-01
Object-oriented maps are important for scene understanding since they jointly capture geometry and semantics, allow individual instantiation and meaningful reasoning about objects. We introduce FroDO, a method for accurate 3D reconstruction of object instances from RGB video that infers their location, pose and shape in a coarse to fine manner. Key to FroDO is to embed object shapes in a novel learnt shape space that allows seamless switching between sparse point cloud and dense DeepSDF decoding. Given an input sequence of localized RGB frames, FroDO first aggregates 2D detections to instantiate a 3D bounding box per object. A shape code is regressed using an encoder network before optimizing shape and pose further under the learnt shape priors using sparse or dense shape representations. The optimization uses multi-view geometric, photometric and silhouette losses. We evaluate on real-world datasets, including Pix3D, Redwood-OS, and ScanNet, for single-view, multi-view, and multi-object reconstruction. 

523
Robust Learning Through Cross-Task Consistency
2020-06-07
Visual perception entails solving a wide set of tasks, e.g., object detection, depth estimation, etc. The predictions made for multiple tasks from the same image are not independent, and therefore, are expected to be consistent. We propose a broadly applicable and fully computational method for augmenting learning with Cross-Task Consistency. The proposed formulation is based on inference-path invariance over a graph of arbitrary tasks. We observe that learning with cross-task consistency leads to more accurate predictions and better generalization to out-of-distribution inputs. This framework also leads to an informative unsupervised quantity, called Consistency Energy, based on measuring the intrinsic consistency of the system. Consistency Energy correlates well with the supervised error (r=0.67), thus it can be employed as an unsupervised confidence metric as well as for detection of out-of-distribution inputs (ROC-AUC=0.95). The evaluations are performed on multiple datasets, including Taskonomy, Replica, CocoDoom, and ApolloScape, and they benchmark cross-task consistency versus various baselines including conventional multi-task learning, cycle consistency, and analytical consistency.

524
3D Reconstruction of Clothes using a Human Body Model and its Application to Image-based Virtual Try-On
2020-06-10
Image-based virtual try-on (VTON) approaches are getting attention since they do not require 3D modeling. However, 2D cloth warping algorithms cannot cover 3D spatial transformations for diverse target human poses. To solve this problem, we propose a 2D and 3D hybrid method. First, a 3D clothing mesh is reconstructed leveraging a 3D human body model in a rest pose. Due to the correspondence, resulting 3D clothing models can be easily transferred to the target human models with different poses and shapes estimated from 2D images. Finally, the deformed clothing models can be rendered and blended with target human representations. Experimental results with an open dataset show that shapes of reconstructed clothing are more natural, compared to the 2D image-based deformation results, when human poses and shapes are estimated accurately.

525
Coherent Reconstruction of Multiple Humans from a Single Image
2020-06-15
In this work, we address the problem of multi-person 3D pose estimation from a single image. A typical regression approach in the top-down setting of this problem would first detect all humans and then reconstruct each one of them independently. However, this type of prediction suffers from incoherent results, e.g., interpenetration and inconsistent depth ordering between the people in the scene. Our goal is to train a single network that learns to avoid these problems and generate a coherent 3D reconstruction of all the humans in the scene. To this end, a key design choice is the incorporation of the SMPL parametric body model in our top-down framework, which enables the use of two novel losses. First, a distance field-based collision loss penalizes interpenetration among the reconstructed people. Second, a depth ordering-aware loss reasons about occlusions and promotes a depth ordering of people that leads to a rendering which is consistent with the annotated instance segmentation. This provides depth supervision signals to the network, even if the image has no explicit 3D annotations. The experiments show that our approach outperforms previous methods on standard 3D pose benchmarks, while our proposed losses enable more coherent reconstruction in natural images. The project website with videos, results, and code can be found at: https://jiangwenpl.github.io/multiperson

526
Geodesic-HOF: 3D Reconstruction Without Cutting Corners
2020-06-14
Single-view 3D object reconstruction is a challenging fundamental problem in computer vision, largely due to the morphological diversity of objects in the natural world. In particular, high curvature regions are not always captured effectively by methods trained using only set-based loss functions, resulting in reconstructions short-circuiting the surface or cutting corners. In particular, high curvature regions are not always captured effectively by methods trained using only set-based loss functions, resulting in reconstructions short-circuiting the surface or cutting corners. To address this issue, we propose learning an image-conditioned mapping function from a canonical sampling domain to a high dimensional space where the Euclidean distance is equal to the geodesic distance on the object. The first three dimensions of a mapped sample correspond to its 3D coordinates. The additional lifted components contain information about the underlying geodesic structure. Our results show that taking advantage of these learned lifted coordinates yields better performance for estimating surface normals and generating surfaces than using point cloud reconstructions alone. Further, we find that this learned geodesic embedding space provides useful information for applications such as unsupervised object decomposition.

527
3D Reconstruction of Novel Object Shapes from Single Images
2020-06-14
Accurately predicting the 3D shape of any arbitrary object in any pose from a single image is a key goal of computer vision research. This is challenging as it requires a model to learn a representation that can infer both the visible and occluded portions of any object using a limited training set. A training set that covers all possible object shapes is inherently infeasible. Such learning-based approaches are inherently vulnerable to overfitting, and successfully implementing them is a function of both the architecture design and the training approach. We present an extensive investigation of factors specific to architecture design, training, experiment design, and evaluation that influence reconstruction performance and measurement. We show that our proposed SDFNet achieves state-of-the-art performance on seen and unseen shapes relative to existing methods GenRe and OccNet. We provide the first large-scale evaluation of single image shape reconstruction to unseen objects. The source code, data and trained models can be found on https://github.com/rehg-lab/3DShapeGen.

528
Learning to Detect 3D Reflection Symmetry for Single-View Reconstruction
2020-06-17
3D reconstruction from a single RGB image is a challenging problem in computer vision. Previous methods are usually solely data-driven, which lead to inaccurate 3D shape recovery and limited generalization capability. In this work, we focus on object-level 3D reconstruction and present a geometry-based end-to-end deep learning framework that first detects the mirror plane of reflection symmetry that commonly exists in man-made objects and then predicts depth maps by finding the intra-image pixel-wise correspondence of the symmetry. Our method fully utilizes the geometric cues from symmetry during the test time by building plane-sweep cost volumes, a powerful tool that has been used in multi-view stereopsis. To our knowledge, this is the first work that uses the concept of cost volumes in the setting of single-image 3D reconstruction. We conduct extensive experiments on the ShapeNet dataset and find that our reconstruction method significantly outperforms the previous state-of-the-art single-view 3D reconstruction networks in term of the accuracy of camera poses and depth maps, without requiring objects being completely symmetric. Code is available at https://github.com/zhou13/symmetrynet.

529
Wireless 3D Point Cloud Delivery Using Deep Graph Neural Networks
2020-06-17
In typical point cloud delivery, a sender uses octree-based digital video compression to send three-dimensional (3D) points and color attributes over band-limited links. However, the digital-based schemes have an issue called the cliff effect, where the 3D reconstruction quality will be a step function in terms of wireless channel quality. To prevent the cliff effect subject to channel quality fluctuation, we have proposed soft point cloud delivery called HoloCast. Although the HoloCast realizes graceful quality improvement according to wireless channel quality, it requires large communication overheads. In this paper, we propose a novel scheme for soft point cloud delivery to simultaneously realize better quality and lower communication overheads. The proposed scheme introduces an end-to-end deep learning framework based on graph neural network (GNN) to reconstruct high-quality point clouds from its distorted observation under wireless fading channels. We demonstrate that the proposed GNN-based scheme can reconstruct clean 3D point cloud with low overheads by removing fading and noise effects.

530
3D Shape Reconstruction from Free-Hand Sketches
2020-06-17
Sketches are the most abstract 2D representations of real-world objects. Although a sketch usually has geometrical distortion and lacks visual cues, humans can effortlessly envision a 3D object from it. This suggests that sketches encode the information necessary for reconstructing 3D shapes. Despite great progress achieved in 3D reconstruction from distortion-free line drawings, such as CAD and edge maps, little effort has been made to reconstruct 3D shapes from free-hand sketches. We study this task and aim to enhance the power of sketches in 3D-related applications such as interactive design and VR/AR games. Unlike previous works, which mostly study distortion-free line drawings, our 3D shape reconstruction is based on free-hand sketches. A major challenge for free-hand sketch 3D reconstruction comes from the insufficient training data and free-hand sketch diversity, e.g. individualized sketching styles. We thus propose data generation and standardization mechanisms. Instead of distortion-free line drawings, synthesized sketches are adopted as input training data. Additionally, we propose a sketch standardization module to handle different sketch distortions and styles. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our model and its strong generalizability to various free-hand sketches. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/samaonline/3D-Shape-Reconstruction-from-Free-Hand-Sketches.

531
Set Distribution Networks: a Generative Model for Sets of Images
2020-06-18
Images with shared characteristics naturally form sets. For example, in a face verification benchmark, images of the same identity form sets. For generative models, the standard way of dealing with sets is to represent each as a one hot vector, and learn a conditional generative model $p(\mathbf{x}|\mathbf{y})$. This representation assumes that the number of sets is limited and known, such that the distribution over sets reduces to a simple multinomial distribution. In contrast, we study a more generic problem where the number of sets is large and unknown. We introduce Set Distribution Networks (SDNs), a novel framework that learns to autoencode and freely generate sets. We achieve this by jointly learning a set encoder, set discriminator, set generator, and set prior. We show that SDNs are able to reconstruct image sets that preserve salient attributes of the inputs in our benchmark datasets, and are also able to generate novel objects/identities. We examine the sets generated by SDN with a pre-trained 3D reconstruction network and a face verification network, respectively, as a novel way to evaluate the quality of generated sets of images.

532
HyNet: Learning Local Descriptor with Hybrid Similarity Measure and Triplet Loss
2020-06-17
Recent works show that local descriptor learning benefits from the use of L2 normalisation, however, an in-depth analysis of this effect lacks in the literature. In this paper, we investigate how L2 normalisation affects the back-propagated descriptor gradients during training. Based on our observations, we propose HyNet, a new local descriptor that leads to state-of-the-art results in matching. HyNet introduces a hybrid similarity measure for triplet margin loss, a regularisation term constraining the descriptor norm, and a new network architecture that performs L2 normalisation of all intermediate feature maps and the output descriptors. HyNet surpasses previous methods by a significant margin on standard benchmarks that include patch matching, verification, and retrieval, as well as outperforming full end-to-end methods on 3D reconstruction tasks.

533
SPSG: Self-Supervised Photometric Scene Generation from RGB-D Scans
2020-06-25
We present SPSG, a novel approach to generate high-quality, colored 3D models of scenes from RGB-D scan observations by learning to infer unobserved scene geometry and color in a self-supervised fashion. Our self-supervised approach learns to jointly inpaint geometry and color by correlating an incomplete RGB-D scan with a more complete version of that scan. Notably, rather than relying on 3D reconstruction losses to inform our 3D geometry and color reconstruction, we propose adversarial and perceptual losses operating on 2D renderings in order to achieve high-resolution, high-quality colored reconstructions of scenes. This exploits the high-resolution, self-consistent signal from individual raw RGB-D frames, in contrast to fused 3D reconstructions of the frames which exhibit inconsistencies from view-dependent effects, such as color balancing or pose inconsistencies. Thus, by informing our 3D scene generation directly through 2D signal, we produce high-quality colored reconstructions of 3D scenes, outperforming state of the art on both synthetic and real data.

534
Joint Hand-object 3D Reconstruction from a Single Image with Cross-branch Feature Fusion
2020-06-28
Accurate 3D reconstruction of the hand and object shape from a hand-object image is important for understanding human-object interaction as well as human daily activities. Different from bare hand pose estimation, hand-object interaction poses a strong constraint on both the hand and its manipulated object, which suggests that hand configuration may be crucial contextual information for the object, and vice versa. However, current approaches address this task by training a two-branch network to reconstruct the hand and object separately with little communication between the two branches. In this work, we propose to consider hand and object jointly in feature space and explore the reciprocity of the two branches. We extensively investigate cross-branch feature fusion architectures with MLP or LSTM units. Among the investigated architectures, a variant with LSTM units that enhances object feature with hand feature shows the best performance gain. Moreover, we employ an auxiliary depth estimation module to augment the input RGB image with the estimated depth map, which further improves the reconstruction accuracy. Experiments conducted on public datasets demonstrate that our approach significantly outperforms existing approaches in terms of the reconstruction accuracy of objects.

535
On the generalization of learning-based 3D reconstruction
2020-06-27
State-of-the-art learning-based monocular 3D reconstruction methods learn priors over object categories on the training set, and as a result struggle to achieve reasonable generalization to object categories unseen during training. In this paper we study the inductive biases encoded in the model architecture that impact the generalization of learning-based 3D reconstruction methods. We find that 3 inductive biases impact performance: the spatial extent of the encoder, the use of the underlying geometry of the scene to describe point features, and the mechanism to aggregate information from multiple views. Additionally, we propose mechanisms to enforce those inductive biases: a point representation that is aware of camera position, and a variance cost to aggregate information across views. Our model achieves state-of-the-art results on the standard ShapeNet 3D reconstruction benchmark in various settings.

536
The Covering-Assignment Problem for Swarm-powered Ad-hoc Clouds: A Distributed 3D Mapping Use-case
2020-04-21
The popularity of drones is rapidly increasing across the different sectors of the economy. Aerial capabilities and relatively low costs make drones the perfect solution to improve the efficiency of those operations that are typically carried out by humans (e.g., building inspection, photo collection). The potential of drone applications can be pushed even further when they are operated in fleets and in a fully autonomous manner, acting de facto as a drone swarm. Besides automating field operations, a drone swarm can serve as an ad-hoc cloud infrastructure built on top of computing and storage resources available across the swarm members and other connected elements. Even in the absence of Internet connectivity, this cloud can serve the workloads generated by the swarm members themselves, as well as by the field agents operating within the area of interest. By considering the practical example of a swarm-powered 3D reconstruction application, we present a new optimization problem for the efficient generation and execution, on top of swarm-powered ad-hoc cloud infrastructure, of multi-node computing workloads subject to data geolocation and clustering constraints. The objective is the minimization of the overall computing times, including both networking delays caused by the inter-drone data transmission and computation delays. We prove that the problem is NP-hard and present two combinatorial formulations to model it. Computational results on the solution of the formulations show that one of them can be used to solve, within the configured time-limit, more than 50% of the considered real-world instances involving up to two hundred images and six drones.

537
Method for the generation of depth images for view-based shape retrieval of 3D CAD model from partial point cloud
2020-06-30
A laser scanner can easily acquire the geometric data of physical environments in the form of a point cloud. Recognizing objects from a point cloud is often required for industrial 3D reconstruction, which should include not only geometry information but also semantic information. However, recognition process is often a bottleneck in 3D reconstruction because it requires expertise on domain knowledge and intensive labor. To address this problem, various methods have been developed to recognize objects by retrieving the corresponding model in the database from an input geometry query. In recent years, the technique of converting geometric data into an image and applying view-based 3D shape retrieval has demonstrated high accuracy. Depth image which encodes depth value as intensity of pixel is frequently used for view-based 3D shape retrieval. However, geometric data collected from objects is often incomplete due to the occlusions and the limit of line of sight. Image generated by occluded point clouds lowers the performance of view-based 3D object retrieval due to loss of information. In this paper, we propose a method of viewpoint and image resolution estimation method for view-based 3D shape retrieval from point cloud query. Automatic selection of viewpoint and image resolution by calculating the data acquisition rate and density from the sampled viewpoints and image resolutions are proposed. The retrieval performance from the images generated by the proposed method is experimented and compared for various dataset. Additionally, view-based 3D shape retrieval performance with deep convolutional neural network has been experimented with the proposed method.

538
Noise2Filter: fast, self-supervised learning and real-time reconstruction for 3D Computed Tomography
2020-07-03
At X-ray beamlines of synchrotron light sources, the achievable time-resolution for 3D tomographic imaging of the interior of an object has been reduced to a fraction of a second, enabling rapidly changing structures to be examined. The associated data acquisition rates require sizable computational resources for reconstruction. Therefore, full 3D reconstruction of the object is usually performed after the scan has completed. Quasi-3D reconstruction -- where several interactive 2D slices are computed instead of a 3D volume -- has been shown to be significantly more efficient, and can enable the real-time reconstruction and visualization of the interior. However, quasi-3D reconstruction relies on filtered backprojection type algorithms, which are typically sensitive to measurement noise. To overcome this issue, we propose Noise2Filter, a learned filter method that can be trained using only the measured data, and does not require any additional training data. This method combines quasi-3D reconstruction, learned filters, and self-supervised learning to derive a tomographic reconstruction method that can be trained in under a minute and evaluated in real-time. We show limited loss of accuracy compared to training with additional training data, and improved accuracy compared to standard filter-based methods.

539
Task-agnostic Temporally Consistent Facial Video Editing
2020-07-03
Recent research has witnessed the advances in facial image editing tasks. For video editing, however, previous methods either simply apply transformations frame by frame or utilize multiple frames in a concatenated or iterative fashion, which leads to noticeable visual flickers. In addition, these methods are confined to dealing with one specific task at a time without any extensibility. In this paper, we propose a task-agnostic temporally consistent facial video editing framework. Based on a 3D reconstruction model, our framework is designed to handle several editing tasks in a more unified and disentangled manner. The core design includes a dynamic training sample selection mechanism and a novel 3D temporal loss constraint that fully exploits both image and video datasets and enforces temporal consistency. Compared with the state-of-the-art facial image editing methods, our framework generates video portraits that are more photo-realistic and temporally smooth.

540
Multi view stereo with semantic priors
2020-07-05
Patch-based stereo is nowadays a commonly used image-based technique for dense 3D reconstruction in large scale multi-view applications. The typical steps of such a pipeline can be summarized in stereo pair selection, depth map computation, depth map refinement and, finally, fusion in order to generate a complete and accurate representation of the scene in 3D. In this study, we aim to support the standard dense 3D reconstruction of scenes as implemented in the open source library OpenMVS by using semantic priors. To this end, during the depth map fusion step, along with the depth consistency check between depth maps of neighbouring views referring to the same part of the 3D scene, we impose extra semantic constraints in order to remove possible errors and selectively obtain segmented point clouds per label, boosting automation towards this direction. I n order to reassure semantic coherence between neighbouring views, additional semantic criterions can be considered, aiming to elim inate mismatches of pixels belonging in different classes.

541
Spatial Semantic Embedding Network: Fast 3D Instance Segmentation with Deep Metric Learning
2020-07-07
We propose spatial semantic embedding network (SSEN), a simple, yet efficient algorithm for 3D instance segmentation using deep metric learning. The raw 3D reconstruction of an indoor environment suffers from occlusions, noise, and is produced without any meaningful distinction between individual entities. For high-level intelligent tasks from a large scale scene, 3D instance segmentation recognizes individual instances of objects. We approach the instance segmentation by simply learning the correct embedding space that maps individual instances of objects into distinct clusters that reflect both spatial and semantic information. Unlike previous approaches that require complex pre-processing or post-processing, our implementation is compact and fast with competitive performance, maintaining scalability on large scenes with high resolution voxels. We demonstrate the state-of-the-art performance of our algorithm in the ScanNet 3D instance segmentation benchmark on AP score.

542
Single-Frame based Deep View Synchronization for Unsynchronized Multi-Camera Surveillance
2020-07-08
Multi-camera surveillance has been an active research topic for understanding and modeling scenes. Compared to a single camera, multi-cameras provide larger field-of-view and more object cues, and the related applications are multi-view counting, multi-view tracking, 3D pose estimation or 3D reconstruction, etc. It is usually assumed that the cameras are all temporally synchronized when designing models for these multi-camera based tasks. However, this assumption is not always valid,especially for multi-camera systems with network transmission delay and low frame-rates due to limited network bandwidth, resulting in desynchronization of the captured frames across cameras. To handle the issue of unsynchronized multi-cameras, in this paper, we propose a synchronization model that works in conjunction with existing DNN-based multi-view models, thus avoiding the redesign of the whole model. Under the low-fps regime, we assume that only a single relevant frame is available from each view, and synchronization is achieved by matching together image contents guided by epipolar geometry. We consider two variants of the model, based on where in the pipeline the synchronization occurs, scene-level synchronization and camera-level synchronization. The view synchronization step and the task-specific view fusion and prediction step are unified in the same framework and trained in an end-to-end fashion. Our view synchronization models are applied to different DNNs-based multi-camera vision tasks under the unsynchronized setting, including multi-view counting and 3D pose estimation, and achieve good performance compared to baselines.

543
AUTO3D: Novel view synthesis through unsupervisely learned variational viewpoint and global 3D representation
2020-07-13
This paper targets on learning-based novel view synthesis from a single or limited 2D images without the pose supervision. In the viewer-centered coordinates, we construct an end-to-end trainable conditional variational framework to disentangle the unsupervisely learned relative-pose/rotation and implicit global 3D representation (shape, texture and the origin of viewer-centered coordinates, etc.). The global appearance of the 3D object is given by several appearance-describing images taken from any number of viewpoints. Our spatial correlation module extracts a global 3D representation from the appearance-describing images in a permutation invariant manner. Our system can achieve implicitly 3D understanding without explicitly 3D reconstruction. With an unsupervisely learned viewer-centered relative-pose/rotation code, the decoder can hallucinate the novel view continuously by sampling the relative-pose in a prior distribution. In various applications, we demonstrate that our model can achieve comparable or even better results than pose/3D model-supervised learning-based novel view synthesis (NVS) methods with any number of input views.

544
Inferring the 3D Standing Spine Posture from 2D Radiographs
2020-07-13
The treatment of degenerative spinal disorders requires an understanding of the individual spinal anatomy and curvature in 3D. An upright spinal pose (i.e. standing) under natural weight bearing is crucial for such bio-mechanical analysis. 3D volumetric imaging modalities (e.g. CT and MRI) are performed in patients lying down. On the other hand, radiographs are captured in an upright pose, but result in 2D projections. This work aims to integrate the two realms, i.e. it combines the upright spinal curvature from radiographs with the 3D vertebral shape from CT imaging for synthesizing an upright 3D model of spine, loaded naturally. Specifically, we propose a novel neural network architecture working vertebra-wise, termed \emph{TransVert}, which takes orthogonal 2D radiographs and infers the spine's 3D posture. We validate our architecture on digitally reconstructed radiographs, achieving a 3D reconstruction Dice of $95.52\%$, indicating an almost perfect 2D-to-3D domain translation. Deploying our model on clinical radiographs, we successfully synthesise full-3D, upright, patient-specific spine models for the first time.

545
PVSNet: Pixelwise Visibility-Aware Multi-View Stereo Network
2020-07-15
Recently, learning-based multi-view stereo methods have achieved promising results. However, they all overlook the visibility difference among different views, which leads to an indiscriminate multi-view similarity definition and greatly limits their performance on datasets with strong viewpoint variations. In this paper, a Pixelwise Visibility-aware multi-view Stereo Network (PVSNet) is proposed for robust dense 3D reconstruction. We present a pixelwise visibility network to learn the visibility information for different neighboring images before computing the multi-view similarity, and then construct an adaptive weighted cost volume with the visibility information. Moreover, we present an anti-noise training strategy that introduces disturbing views during model training to make the pixelwise visibility network more distinguishable to unrelated views, which is different with the existing learning methods that only use two best neighboring views for training. To the best of our knowledge, PVSNet is the first deep learning framework that is able to capture the visibility information of different neighboring views. In this way, our method can be generalized well to different types of datasets, especially the ETH3D high-res benchmark with strong viewpoint variations. Extensive experiments show that PVSNet achieves the state-of-the-art performance on different datasets.

546
Fast and Robust Iterative Closest Point
2020-07-15
The Iterative Closest Point (ICP) algorithm and its variants are a fundamental technique for rigid registration between two point sets, with wide applications in different areas from robotics to 3D reconstruction. The main drawbacks for ICP are its slow convergence as well as its sensitivity to outliers, missing data, and partial overlaps. Recent work such as Sparse ICP achieves robustness via sparsity optimization at the cost of computational speed. In this paper, we propose a new method for robust registration with fast convergence. First, we show that the classical point-to-point ICP can be treated as a majorization-minimization (MM) algorithm, and propose an Anderson acceleration approach to speed up its convergence. In addition, we introduce a robust error metric based on the Welsch's function, which is minimized efficiently using the MM algorithm with Anderson acceleration. On challenging datasets with noises and partial overlaps, we achieve similar or better accuracy than Sparse ICP while being at least an order of magnitude faster. Finally, we extend the robust formulation to point-to-plane ICP, and solve the resulting problem using a similar Anderson-accelerated MM strategy. Our robust ICP methods improve the registration accuracy on benchmark datasets while being competitive in computational time.

547
Learning to Parse Wireframes in Images of Man-Made Environments
2020-07-15
In this paper, we propose a learning-based approach to the task of automatically extracting a "wireframe" representation for images of cluttered man-made environments. The wireframe (see Fig. 1) contains all salient straight lines and their junctions of the scene that encode efficiently and accurately large-scale geometry and object shapes. To this end, we have built a very large new dataset of over 5,000 images with wireframes thoroughly labelled by humans. We have proposed two convolutional neural networks that are suitable for extracting junctions and lines with large spatial support, respectively. The networks trained on our dataset have achieved significantly better performance than state-of-the-art methods for junction detection and line segment detection, respectively. We have conducted extensive experiments to evaluate quantitatively and qualitatively the wireframes obtained by our method, and have convincingly shown that effectively and efficiently parsing wireframes for images of man-made environments is a feasible goal within reach. Such wireframes could benefit many important visual tasks such as feature correspondence, 3D reconstruction, vision-based mapping, localization, and navigation. The data and source code are available at https://github.com/huangkuns/wireframe.

548
Co-Attention for Conditioned Image Matching
2020-07-16
We propose a new approach to determine correspondences between image pairs in the wild under large changes in illumination, viewpoint, context, and material. While other approaches find correspondences between pairs of images by treating the images independently, we instead condition on both images to implicitly take account of the differences between them. To achieve this, we introduce (i) a spatial attention mechanism (a co-attention module, CoAM) for conditioning the learned features on both images, and (ii) a distinctiveness score used to choose the best matches at test time. CoAM can be added to standard architectures and trained using self-supervision or supervised data, and achieves a significant performance improvement under hard conditions, e.g. large viewpoint changes. We demonstrate that models using CoAM achieve state of the art or competitive results on a wide range of tasks: local matching, camera localization, 3D reconstruction, and image stylization.

549
PerMO: Perceiving More at Once from a Single Image for Autonomous Driving
2020-07-16
We present a novel approach to detect, segment, and reconstruct complete textured 3D models of vehicles from a single image for autonomous driving. Our approach combines the strengths of deep learning and the elegance of traditional techniques from part-based deformable model representation to produce high-quality 3D models in the presence of severe occlusions. We present a new part-based deformable vehicle model that is used for instance segmentation and automatically generate a dataset that contains dense correspondences between 2D images and 3D models. We also present a novel end-to-end deep neural network to predict dense 2D/3D mapping and highlight its benefits. Based on the dense mapping, we are able to compute precise 6-DoF poses and 3D reconstruction results at almost interactive rates on a commodity GPU. We have integrated these algorithms with an autonomous driving system. In practice, our method outperforms the state-of-the-art methods for all major vehicle parsing tasks: 2D instance segmentation by 4.4 points (mAP), 6-DoF pose estimation by 9.11 points, and 3D detection by 1.37. Moreover, we have released all of the source code, dataset, and the trained model on Github.

550
Polarimetric Multi-View Inverse Rendering
2020-07-17
A polarization camera has great potential for 3D reconstruction since the angle of polarization (AoP) of reflected light is related to an object's surface normal. In this paper, we propose a novel 3D reconstruction method called Polarimetric Multi-View Inverse Rendering (Polarimetric MVIR) that effectively exploits geometric, photometric, and polarimetric cues extracted from input multi-view color polarization images. We first estimate camera poses and an initial 3D model by geometric reconstruction with a standard structure-from-motion and multi-view stereo pipeline. We then refine the initial model by optimizing photometric and polarimetric rendering errors using multi-view RGB and AoP images, where we propose a novel polarimetric rendering cost function that enables us to effectively constrain each estimated surface vertex's normal while considering four possible ambiguous azimuth angles revealed from the AoP measurement. Experimental results using both synthetic and real data demonstrate that our Polarimetric MVIR can reconstruct a detailed 3D shape without assuming a specific polarized reflection depending on the material.

551
Single View Metrology in the Wild
2020-07-18
Most 3D reconstruction methods may only recover scene properties up to a global scale ambiguity. We present a novel approach to single view metrology that can recover the absolute scale of a scene represented by 3D heights of objects or camera height above the ground as well as camera parameters of orientation and field of view, using just a monocular image acquired in unconstrained condition. Our method relies on data-driven priors learned by a deep network specifically designed to imbibe weakly supervised constraints from the interplay of the unknown camera with 3D entities such as object heights, through estimation of bounding box projections. We leverage categorical priors for objects such as humans or cars that commonly occur in natural images, as references for scale estimation. We demonstrate state-of-the-art qualitative and quantitative results on several datasets as well as applications including virtual object insertion. Furthermore, the perceptual quality of our outputs is validated by a user study.

552
Ladybird: Quasi-Monte Carlo Sampling for Deep Implicit Field Based 3D Reconstruction with Symmetry
2020-07-27
Deep implicit field regression methods are effective for 3D reconstruction from single-view images. However, the impact of different sampling patterns on the reconstruction quality is not well-understood. In this work, we first study the effect of point set discrepancy on the network training. Based on Farthest Point Sampling algorithm, we propose a sampling scheme that theoretically encourages better generalization performance, and results in fast convergence for SGD-based optimization algorithms. Secondly, based on the reflective symmetry of an object, we propose a feature fusion method that alleviates issues due to self-occlusions which makes it difficult to utilize local image features. Our proposed system Ladybird is able to create high quality 3D object reconstructions from a single input image. We evaluate Ladybird on a large scale 3D dataset (ShapeNet) demonstrating highly competitive results in terms of Chamfer distance, Earth Mover's distance and Intersection Over Union (IoU).

553
GSNet: Joint Vehicle Pose and Shape Reconstruction with Geometrical and Scene-aware Supervision
2020-07-26
We present a novel end-to-end framework named as GSNet (Geometric and Scene-aware Network), which jointly estimates 6DoF poses and reconstructs detailed 3D car shapes from single urban street view. GSNet utilizes a unique four-way feature extraction and fusion scheme and directly regresses 6DoF poses and shapes in a single forward pass. Extensive experiments show that our diverse feature extraction and fusion scheme can greatly improve model performance. Based on a divide-and-conquer 3D shape representation strategy, GSNet reconstructs 3D vehicle shape with great detail (1352 vertices and 2700 faces). This dense mesh representation further leads us to consider geometrical consistency and scene context, and inspires a new multi-objective loss function to regularize network training, which in turn improves the accuracy of 6D pose estimation and validates the merit of jointly performing both tasks. We evaluate GSNet on the largest multi-task ApolloCar3D benchmark and achieve state-of-the-art performance both quantitatively and qualitatively. Project page is available at https://lkeab.github.io/gsnet/.

554
Continuous Object Representation Networks: Novel View Synthesis without Target View Supervision
2020-07-30
Novel View Synthesis (NVS) is concerned with synthesizing views under camera viewpoint transformations from one or multiple input images. NVS requires explicit reasoning about 3D object structure and unseen parts of the scene to synthesize convincing results. As a result, current approaches typically rely on supervised training with either ground truth 3D models or multiple target images. We propose Continuous Object Representation Networks (CORN), a conditional architecture that encodes an input image's geometry and appearance that map to a 3D consistent scene representation. We can train CORN with only two source images per object by combining our model with a neural renderer. A key feature of CORN is that it requires no ground truth 3D models or target view supervision. Regardless, CORN performs well on challenging tasks such as novel view synthesis and single-view 3D reconstruction and achieves performance comparable to state-of-the-art approaches that use direct supervision. For up-to-date information, data, and code, please see our project page: https://nicolaihaeni.github.io/corn/.

555
Event-based Stereo Visual Odometry
2020-07-30
Event-based cameras are bio-inspired vision sensors whose pixels work independently from each other and respond asynchronously to brightness changes, with microsecond resolution. Their advantages make it possible to tackle challenging scenarios in robotics, such as high-speed and high dynamic range scenes. We present a solution to the problem of visual odometry from the data acquired by a stereo event-based camera rig. Our system follows a parallel tracking-and-mapping approach, where novel solutions to each subproblem (3D reconstruction and camera pose estimation) are developed with two objectives in mind: being principled and efficient, for real-time operation with commodity hardware. To this end, we seek to maximize the spatio-temporal consistency of stereo event-based data while using a simple and efficient representation. Specifically, the mapping module builds a semi-dense 3D map of the scene by fusing depth estimates from multiple local viewpoints (obtained by spatio-temporal consistency) in a probabilistic fashion. The tracking module recovers the pose of the stereo rig by solving a registration problem that naturally arises due to the chosen map and event data representation. Experiments on publicly available datasets and on our own recordings demonstrate the versatility of the proposed method in natural scenes with general 6-DoF motion. The system successfully leverages the advantages of event-based cameras to perform visual odometry in challenging illumination conditions, such as low-light and high dynamic range, while running in real-time on a standard CPU. We release the software and dataset under an open source licence to foster research in the emerging topic of event-based SLAM.

556
Stochastic Bundle Adjustment for Efficient and Scalable 3D Reconstruction
2020-08-02
Current bundle adjustment solvers such as the Levenberg-Marquardt (LM) algorithm are limited by the bottleneck in solving the Reduced Camera System (RCS) whose dimension is proportional to the camera number. When the problem is scaled up, this step is neither efficient in computation nor manageable for a single compute node. In this work, we propose a stochastic bundle adjustment algorithm which seeks to decompose the RCS approximately inside the LM iterations to improve the efficiency and scalability. It first reformulates the quadratic programming problem of an LM iteration based on the clustering of the visibility graph by introducing the equality constraints across clusters. Then, we propose to relax it into a chance constrained problem and solve it through sampled convex program. The relaxation is intended to eliminate the interdependence between clusters embodied by the constraints, so that a large RCS can be decomposed into independent linear sub-problems. Numerical experiments on unordered Internet image sets and sequential SLAM image sets, as well as distributed experiments on large-scale datasets, have demonstrated the high efficiency and scalability of the proposed approach. Codes are released at https://github.com/zlthinker/STBA.

557
Integration of the 3D Environment for UAV Onboard Visual Object Tracking
2020-08-06
Single visual object tracking from an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) poses fundamental challenges such as object occlusion, small-scale objects, background clutter, and abrupt camera motion. To tackle these difficulties, we propose to integrate the 3D structure of the observed scene into a detection-by-tracking algorithm. We introduce a pipeline that combines a model-free visual object tracker, a sparse 3D reconstruction, and a state estimator. The 3D reconstruction of the scene is computed with an image-based Structure-from-Motion (SfM) component that enables us to leverage a state estimator in the corresponding 3D scene during tracking. By representing the position of the target in 3D space rather than in image space, we stabilize the tracking during ego-motion and improve the handling of occlusions, background clutter, and small-scale objects. We evaluated our approach on prototypical image sequences, captured from a UAV with low-altitude oblique views. For this purpose, we adapted an existing dataset for visual object tracking and reconstructed the observed scene in 3D. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed approach outperforms methods using plain visual cues as well as approaches leveraging image-space-based state estimations. We believe that our approach can be beneficial for traffic monitoring, video surveillance, and navigation.

558
RocNet: Recursive Octree Network for Efficient 3D Deep Representation
2020-08-10
We introduce a deep recursive octree network for the compression of 3D voxel data. Our network compresses a voxel grid of any size down to a very small latent space in an autoencoder-like network. We show results for compressing 32, 64 and 128 grids down to just 80 floats in the latent space. We demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of our proposed method on several publicly available datasets with three experiments: 3D shape classification, 3D shape reconstruction, and shape generation. Experimental results show that our algorithm maintains accuracy while consuming less memory with shorter training times compared to existing methods, especially in 3D reconstruction tasks.

559
Attention-based 3D Object Reconstruction from a Single Image
2020-08-11
Recently, learning-based approaches for 3D reconstruction from 2D images have gained popularity due to its modern applications, e.g., 3D printers, autonomous robots, self-driving cars, virtual reality, and augmented reality. The computer vision community has applied a great effort in developing functions to reconstruct the full 3D geometry of objects and scenes. However, to extract image features, they rely on convolutional neural networks, which are ineffective in capturing long-range dependencies. In this paper, we propose to substantially improve Occupancy Networks, a state-of-the-art method for 3D object reconstruction. For such we apply the concept of self-attention within the network's encoder in order to leverage complementary input features rather than those based on local regions, helping the encoder to extract global information. With our approach, we were capable of improving the original work in 5.05% of mesh IoU, 0.83% of Normal Consistency, and more than 10X the Chamfer-L1 distance. We also perform a qualitative study that shows that our approach was able to generate much more consistent meshes, confirming its increased generalization power over the current state-of-the-art.

560
Generative Adversarial Networks for Robust Cryo-EM Image Denoising
2020-08-17
The cryo-electron microscopy (Cryo-EM) becomes popular for macromolecular structure determination. However, the 2D images which Cryo-EM detects are of high noise and often mixed with multiple heterogeneous conformations or contamination, imposing a challenge for denoising. Traditional image denoising methods can not remove Cryo-EM image noise well when the signal-noise-ratio (SNR) of images is meager. Thus it is desired to develop new effective denoising techniques to facilitate further research such as 3D reconstruction, 2D conformation classification, and so on. In this paper, we approach the robust image denoising problem in Cryo-EM by a joint Autoencoder and Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN) method. Equipped with robust $\ell_1$ Autoencoder and some designs of robust $\beta$-GANs, one can stabilize the training of GANs and achieve the state-of-the-art performance of robust denoising with low SNR data and against possible information contamination. The method is evaluated by both a heterogeneous conformational dataset on the Thermus aquaticus RNA Polymerase (RNAP) and a homogenous dataset on the Plasmodium falciparum 80S ribosome dataset (EMPIRE-10028), in terms of Mean Square Error (MSE), Peak Signal to Noise Ratio (PSNR), Structural Similarity Index Measure (SSIM), as well as heterogeneous conformation clustering. These results suggest that our proposed methodology provides an effective tool for Cryo-EM 2D image denoising. Our code is available in "https://github.com/ghl1995/denoise-gan-in-cryo-em".

561
Visibility-aware Multi-view Stereo Network
2020-08-18
Learning-based multi-view stereo (MVS) methods have demonstrated promising results. However, very few existing networks explicitly take the pixel-wise visibility into consideration, resulting in erroneous cost aggregation from occluded pixels. In this paper, we explicitly infer and integrate the pixel-wise occlusion information in the MVS network via the matching uncertainty estimation. The pair-wise uncertainty map is jointly inferred with the pair-wise depth map, which is further used as weighting guidance during the multi-view cost volume fusion. As such, the adverse influence of occluded pixels is suppressed in the cost fusion. The proposed framework Vis-MVSNet significantly improves depth accuracies in the scenes with severe occlusion. Extensive experiments are performed on DTU, BlendedMVS, and Tanks and Temples datasets to justify the effectiveness of the proposed framework.

562
Contact Area Detector using Cross View Projection Consistency for COVID-19 Projects
2020-08-18
The ability to determine what parts of objects and surfaces people touch as they go about their daily lives would be useful in understanding how the COVID-19 virus spreads. To determine whether a person has touched an object or surface using visual data, images, or videos, is a hard problem. Computer vision 3D reconstruction approaches project objects and the human body from the 2D image domain to 3D and perform 3D space intersection directly. However, this solution would not meet the accuracy requirement in applications due to projection error. Another standard approach is to train a neural network to infer touch actions from the collected visual data. This strategy would require significant amounts of training data to generalize over scale and viewpoint variations. A different approach to this problem is to identify whether a person has touched a defined object. In this work, we show that the solution to this problem can be straightforward. Specifically, we show that the contact between an object and a static surface can be identified by projecting the object onto the static surface through two different viewpoints and analyzing their 2D intersection. The object contacts the surface when the projected points are close to each other; we call this cross view projection consistency. Instead of doing 3D scene reconstruction or transfer learning from deep networks, a mapping from the surface in the two camera views to the surface space is the only requirement. For planar space, this mapping is the Homography transformation. This simple method can be easily adapted to real-life applications. In this paper, we apply our method to do office occupancy detection for studying the COVID-19 transmission pattern from an office desk in a meeting room using the contact information.

563
DeepLiDARFlow: A Deep Learning Architecture For Scene Flow Estimation Using Monocular Camera and Sparse LiDAR
2020-08-18
Scene flow is the dense 3D reconstruction of motion and geometry of a scene. Most state-of-the-art methods use a pair of stereo images as input for full scene reconstruction. These methods depend a lot on the quality of the RGB images and perform poorly in regions with reflective objects, shadows, ill-conditioned light environment and so on. LiDAR measurements are much less sensitive to the aforementioned conditions but LiDAR features are in general unsuitable for matching tasks due to their sparse nature. Hence, using both LiDAR and RGB can potentially overcome the individual disadvantages of each sensor by mutual improvement and yield robust features which can improve the matching process. In this paper, we present DeepLiDARFlow, a novel deep learning architecture which fuses high level RGB and LiDAR features at multiple scales in a monocular setup to predict dense scene flow. Its performance is much better in the critical regions where image-only and LiDAR-only methods are inaccurate. We verify our DeepLiDARFlow using the established data sets KITTI and FlyingThings3D and we show strong robustness compared to several state-of-the-art methods which used other input modalities. The code of our paper is available at https://github.com/dfki-av/DeepLiDARFlow.

564
BraggNN: Fast X-ray Bragg Peak Analysis Using Deep Learning
2020-08-18
X-ray diffraction based microscopy techniques such as High Energy Diffraction Microscopy rely on knowledge of the position of diffraction peaks with high precision. These positions are typically computed by fitting the observed intensities in area detector data to a theoretical peak shape such as pseudo-Voigt. As experiments become more complex and detector technologies evolve, the computational cost of such peak detection and shape fitting becomes the biggest hurdle to the rapid analysis required for real-time feedback during in-situ experiments. To this end, we propose BraggNN, a deep learning-based method that can determine peak positions much more rapidly than conventional pseudo-Voigt peak fitting. When applied to a test dataset, BraggNN gives errors of less than 0.29 and 0.57 pixels, relative to the conventional method, for 75% and 95% of the peaks, respectively. When applied to a real experimental dataset, a 3D reconstruction that used peak positions computed by BraggNN yields 15% better results on average as compared to a reconstruction obtained using peak positions determined using conventional 2D pseudo-Voigt fitting. Recent advances in deep learning method implementations and special-purpose model inference accelerators allow BraggNN to deliver enormous performance improvements relative to the conventional method, running, for example, more than 200 times faster than a conventional method on a consumer-class GPU card with out-of-the-box software.

565
Multi-Dimension Fusion Network for Light Field Spatial Super-Resolution using Dynamic Filters
2020-08-26
Light field cameras have been proved to be powerful tools for 3D reconstruction and virtual reality applications. However, the limited resolution of light field images brings a lot of difficulties for further information display and extraction. In this paper, we introduce a novel learning-based framework to improve the spatial resolution of light fields. First, features from different dimensions are parallelly extracted and fused together in our multi-dimension fusion architecture. These features are then used to generate dynamic filters, which extract subpixel information from micro-lens images and also implicitly consider the disparity information. Finally, more high-frequency details learned in the residual branch are added to the upsampled images and the final super-resolved light fields are obtained. Experimental results show that the proposed method uses fewer parameters but achieves better performances than other state-of-the-art methods in various kinds of datasets. Our reconstructed images also show sharp details and distinct lines in both sub-aperture images and epipolar plane images.

566
Canonical 3D Deformer Maps: Unifying parametric and non-parametric methods for dense weakly-supervised category reconstruction
2020-08-28
We propose the Canonical 3D Deformer Map, a new representation of the 3D shape of common object categories that can be learned from a collection of 2D images of independent objects. Our method builds in a novel way on concepts from parametric deformation models, non-parametric 3D reconstruction, and canonical embeddings, combining their individual advantages. In particular, it learns to associate each image pixel with a deformation model of the corresponding 3D object point which is canonical, i.e. intrinsic to the identity of the point and shared across objects of the category. The result is a method that, given only sparse 2D supervision at training time, can, at test time, reconstruct the 3D shape and texture of objects from single views, while establishing meaningful dense correspondences between object instances. It also achieves state-of-the-art results in dense 3D reconstruction on public in-the-wild datasets of faces, cars, and birds.

567
Next-Best View Policy for 3D Reconstruction
2020-08-28
Manually selecting viewpoints or using commonly available flight planners like circular path for large-scale 3D reconstruction using drones often results in incomplete 3D models. Recent works have relied on hand-engineered heuristics such as information gain to select the Next-Best Views. In this work, we present a learning-based algorithm called Scan-RL to learn a Next-Best View (NBV) Policy. To train and evaluate the agent, we created Houses3K, a dataset of 3D house models. Our experiments show that using Scan-RL, the agent can scan houses with fewer number of steps and a shorter distance compared to our baseline circular path. Experimental results also demonstrate that a single NBV policy can be used to scan multiple houses including those that were not seen during training. The link to Scan-RL is available at https://github.com/darylperalta/ScanRL and Houses3K dataset can be found at https://github.com/darylperalta/Houses3K.

568
Heightmap Reconstruction of Macula on Color Fundus Images Using Conditional Generative Adversarial Networks
2020-09-03
For screening, 3D shape of the eye retina often provides structural information and can assist ophthalmologists to diagnose diseases. However, fundus images which are one the most common screening modalities for retina diagnosis lack this information due to their 2D nature. Hence, in this work, we try to infer about this 3D information or more specifically its heights. Recent approaches have used shading information for reconstructing the heights but their output is not accurate since the utilized information is not sufficient. Additionally, other methods were dependent on the availability of more than one image of the eye which is not available in practice. In this paper, motivated by the success of Conditional Generative Adversarial Networks(cGANs) and deeply supervised networks, we propose a novel architecture for the generator which enhances the details in a sequence of steps. Comparisons on our dataset illustrate that the proposed method outperforms all of the state-of-the-art methods in image translation and medical image translation on this particular task. Additionally, clinical studies also indicate that the proposed method can provide additional information for ophthalmologists for diagnosis.

569
Image-to-Voxel Model Translation for 3D Scene Reconstruction and Segmentation
None
Objects class, depth, and shape are instantly reconstructed by a human looking at a 2D image. While modern deep models solve each of these challenging tasks separately, they struggle to perform simultaneous scene 3D reconstruction and segmentation. We propose a single shot image-to-semantic voxel model translation framework. We train a generator adversarially against a discriminator that verifies the object's poses. Furthermore, trapezium-shaped voxels, volumetric residual blocks, and 2D-to-3D skip connections facilitate our model learning explicit reasoning about 3D scene structure. We collected a SemanticVoxels dataset with 116k images, ground-truth semantic voxel models, depth maps, and 6D object poses. Experiments on ShapeNet and our SemanticVoxels datasets demonstrate that our framework achieves and surpasses state-of-the-art in the reconstruction of scenes with multiple non-rigid objects of different classes. We made our model and dataset publicly available

570
GSIR: Generalizable 3D Shape Interpretation and Reconstruction
None
Single image 3D shape interpretation and reconstruction are closely related to each other but have long been studied separately and often end up with priors that are highly biased by training classes. Here we present an algorithm extit{(GSIR)}, designed to joint learning these two tasks to capture generic, class-agnostic shape priors for a better understanding of 3D geometry. We propose to recover 3D shape structures as cuboids from partially reconstructed objects and use the predicted structures to further guide 3D reconstruction. The unified framework is trained simultaneously offline to learn a generic notion and can be fine-tuned online for specific objects without any annotations. Extensive experiments on both synthetic and real data demonstrate that introducing 3D shape interpretation improves the performance of 3D reconstruction and vice versa, against the state-of-the-art algorithms on both seen and unseen categories.

571
Multi-Agent Embodied Question Answering in Interactive Environments
None
We investigate a new AI task --- Multi-Agent Interactive Question Answering --- where several agents explore the scene jointly in interactive environments to answer a question. To cooperate efficiently and answer accurately, agents must be well-organized to have balanced work division and share knowledge about the objects involved. We address this new problem in two stages: Multi-Agent 3D Reconstruction in Interactive Environments and Question Answering. Our proposed framework features multi-layer structural and semantic memories shared by all agents, as well as a question answering model built upon a 3D-CNN network to encode the scene memories. During the reconstruction, agents simultaneously explore and scan the scene with a clear division of work, organized by next viewpoints planning. We evaluate our framework on the IQuADv1 dataset and outperform the IQA baseline in a single-agent scenario. In multi-agent scenarios, our framework shows favorable speedups while remaining high accuracy.

572
Eyeglasses 3D shape reconstruction from a single face image
None
A complete 3D face reconstruction requires to explicitly model the eyeglasses on the face, which is less investigated in the literature. In this paper, we present an automatic system that recovers the 3D shape of eyeglasses from a single face image with an arbitrary head pose. To achieve this goal, our system first trains a neural network to jointly perform glasses landmark detection and segmentation, which carry the sparse and dense glasses information respectively for 3D glasses pose estimation and shape recovery. To solve the ambiguity in 2D to 3D reconstruction, our system fully explores the prior knowledge including the relative motion constraint between face and glasses and the planar and symmetric shape prior feature of glasses. From the qualitative and quantitative experiments, we see that our system reconstructs promising 3D shapes of eyeglasses for various poses.

573
PLP - Point-line Minimal Problems under Partial Visibility in Three Views
None
We present a complete classification of minimal problems for generic arrangements of points and lines in space observed partially by three calibrated perspective cameras when each line is incident to at most one point. This is a large class of interesting minimal problems that allows for missing observations in images due to occlusions and missed detections. There is an infinite number of such minimal problems; however, we show that they can be reduced to 140616 equivalence classes by removing superfluous features and relabeling the cameras. We also introduce camera-minimal problems, which are practical for designing minimal solvers, and show how to pick a simplest camera-minimal problem for each minimal problem. This simplification results in 74575 equivalence classes. Only 76 of these were known; the rest are new. In order to identify problems that have potential for practical solving of image matching and 3D reconstruction, we present several smaller natural subfamilies of camera-minimal problems as well as compute solution counts for all camera-minimal problems which have less than 300 solutions for generic data.

574
FreeCam3D: Snapshot Structured Light 3D with Freely-Moving Cameras
None
A 3D imaging and mapping system that can handle both multiple-viewers and dynamic-objects is attractive for many applications. We propose a freeform structured light system that does not rigidly constrain camera(s) to the projector. By introducing an optimized phase-coded aperture in the projector, we transform the projector pattern to encode depth in its defocus robustly; this allows a camera to estimate depth, in projector coordinates, using local information. Additionally, we project a Kronecker-multiplexed pattern that provides global context to establish correspondence between camera and projector pixels. Together with aperture coding and projected pattern, the projector offers a unique 3D labeling for every location of the scene. The projected pattern can be observed in part or full by any camera, to reconstruct both the 3D map of the scene and the camera pose in the projector coordinates. This system is optimized using a fully differentiable rendering model and a CNN-based reconstruction. We build a prototype and demonstrate high-quality 3D reconstruction with an unconstrained camera, for both dynamic scenes and multi-camera systems.

575
Cephalogram Synthesis and Landmark Detection in Dental Cone-Beam CT Systems
2020-09-09
Due to the lack of standardized 3D cephalometric analytic methodology, 2D cephalograms synthesized from 3D cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) volumes are widely used for cephalometric analysis in dental CBCT systems. However, compared with conventional X-ray film based cephalograms, such synthetic cephalograms lack image contrast and resolution. In addition, the radiation dose during the scan for 3D reconstruction causes potential health risks. In this work, we propose a sigmoid-based intensity transform that uses the nonlinear optical property of X-ray films to increase image contrast of synthetic cephalograms. To improve image resolution, super resolution deep learning techniques are investigated. For low dose purpose, the pixel-to-pixel generative adversarial network (pix2pixGAN) is proposed for 2D cephalogram synthesis directly from two CBCT projections. For landmark detection in the synthetic cephalograms, an efficient automatic landmark detection method using the combination of LeNet-5 and ResNet50 is proposed. Our experiments demonstrate the efficacy of pix2pixGAN in 2D cephalogram synthesis, achieving an average peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR) value of 33.8 with reference to the cephalograms synthesized from 3D CBCT volumes. Pix2pixGAN also achieves the best performance in super resolution, achieving an average PSNR value of 32.5 without the introduction of checkerboard or jagging artifacts. Our proposed automatic landmark detection method achieves 86.7% successful detection rate in the 2 mm clinical acceptable range on the ISBI Test1 data, which is comparable to the state-of-the-art methods. The method trained on conventional cephalograms can be directly applied to landmark detection in the synthetic cephalograms, achieving 93.0% and 80.7% successful detection rate in 4 mm precision range for synthetic cephalograms from 3D volumes and 2D projections respectively.

576
Self-supervised Depth Denoising Using Lower- and Higher-quality RGB-D sensors
2020-09-10
Consumer-level depth cameras and depth sensors embedded in mobile devices enable numerous applications, such as AR games and face identification. However, the quality of the captured depth is sometimes insufficient for 3D reconstruction, tracking and other computer vision tasks. In this paper, we propose a self-supervised depth denoising approach to denoise and refine depth coming from a low quality sensor. We record simultaneous RGB-D sequences with unzynchronized lower- and higher-quality cameras and solve a challenging problem of aligning sequences both temporally and spatially. We then learn a deep neural network to denoise the lower-quality depth using the matched higher-quality data as a source of supervision signal. We experimentally validate our method against state-of-the-art filtering-based and deep denoising techniques and show its application for 3D object reconstruction tasks where our approach leads to more detailed fused surfaces and better tracking.

577
3D Reconstruction and Segmentation of Dissection Photographs for MRI-free Neuropathology
2020-09-11
Neuroimaging to neuropathology correlation (NTNC) promises to enable the transfer of microscopic signatures of pathology to in vivo imaging with MRI, ultimately enhancing clinical care. NTNC traditionally requires a volumetric MRI scan, acquired either ex vivo or a short time prior to death. Unfortunately, ex vivo MRI is difficult and costly, and recent premortem scans of sufficient quality are seldom available. To bridge this gap, we present methodology to 3D reconstruct and segment full brain image volumes from brain dissection photographs, which are routinely acquired at many brain banks and neuropathology departments. The 3D reconstruction is achieved via a joint registration framework, which uses a reference volume other than MRI. This volume may represent either the sample at hand (e.g., a surface 3D scan) or the general population (a probabilistic atlas). In addition, we present a Bayesian method to segment the 3D reconstructed photographic volumes into 36 neuroanatomical structures, which is robust to nonuniform brightness within and across photographs. We evaluate our methods on a dataset with 24 brains, using Dice scores and volume correlations. The results show that dissection photography is a valid replacement for ex vivo MRI in many volumetric analyses, opening an avenue for MRI-free NTNC, including retrospective data. The code is available at https://github.com/htregidgo/DissectionPhotoVolumes.

578
6-DoF Grasp Planning using Fast 3D Reconstruction and Grasp Quality CNN
2020-09-18
Recent consumer demand for home robots has accelerated performance of robotic grasping. However, a key component of the perception pipeline, the depth camera, is still expensive and inaccessible to most consumers. In addition, grasp planning has significantly improved recently, by leveraging large datasets and cloud robotics, and by limiting the state and action space to top-down grasps with 4 degrees of freedom (DoF). By leveraging multi-view geometry of the object using inexpensive equipment such as off-the-shelf RGB cameras and state-of-the-art algorithms such as Learn Stereo Machine (LSM\cite{kar2017learning}), the robot is able to generate more robust grasps from different angles with 6-DoF. In this paper, we present a modification of LSM to graspable objects, evaluate the grasps, and develop a 6-DoF grasp planner based on Grasp-Quality CNN (GQ-CNN\cite{mahler2017dex}) that exploits multiple camera views to plan a robust grasp, even in the absence of a possible top-down grasp.

579
Thompson Sampling: An Asymptotically Optimal Finite Time Analysis
2012-05-18
The question of the optimality of Thompson Sampling for solving the stochastic multi-armed bandit problem had been open since 1933. In this paper we answer it positively for the case of Bernoulli rewards by providing the first finite-time analysis that matches the asymptotic rate given in the Lai and Robbins lower bound for the cumulative regret. The proof is accompanied by a numerical comparison with other optimal policies, experiments that have been lacking in the literature until now for the Bernoulli case.

580
Amodal 3D Reconstruction for Robotic Manipulation via Stability and Connectivity
2020-09-28
Learning-based 3D object reconstruction enables single- or few-shot estimation of 3D object models. For robotics, this holds the potential to allow model-based methods to rapidly adapt to novel objects and scenes. Existing 3D reconstruction techniques optimize for visual reconstruction fidelity, typically measured by chamfer distance or voxel IOU. We find that when applied to realistic, cluttered robotics environments, these systems produce reconstructions with low physical realism, resulting in poor task performance when used for model-based control. We propose ARM, an amodal 3D reconstruction system that introduces (1) a stability prior over object shapes, (2) a connectivity prior, and (3) a multi-channel input representation that allows for reasoning over relationships between groups of objects. By using these priors over the physical properties of objects, our system improves reconstruction quality not just by standard visual metrics, but also performance of model-based control on a variety of robotics manipulation tasks in challenging, cluttered environments. Code is available at github.com/wagnew3/ARM.

581
Multi-View Consistency Loss for Improved Single-Image 3D Reconstruction of Clothed People
2020-09-29
We present a novel method to improve the accuracy of the 3D reconstruction of clothed human shape from a single image. Recent work has introduced volumetric, implicit and model-based shape learning frameworks for reconstruction of objects and people from one or more images. However, the accuracy and completeness for reconstruction of clothed people is limited due to the large variation in shape resulting from clothing, hair, body size, pose and camera viewpoint. This paper introduces two advances to overcome this limitation: firstly a new synthetic dataset of realistic clothed people, 3DVH; and secondly, a novel multiple-view loss function for training of monocular volumetric shape estimation, which is demonstrated to significantly improve generalisation and reconstruction accuracy. The 3DVH dataset of realistic clothed 3D human models rendered with diverse natural backgrounds is demonstrated to allows transfer to reconstruction from real images of people. Comprehensive comparative performance evaluation on both synthetic and real images of people demonstrates that the proposed method significantly outperforms the previous state-of-the-art learning-based single image 3D human shape estimation approaches achieving significant improvement of reconstruction accuracy, completeness, and quality. An ablation study shows that this is due to both the proposed multiple-view training and the new 3DVH dataset. The code and the dataset can be found at the project website: https://akincaliskan3d.github.io/MV3DH/.

582
Loop-box: Multi-Agent Direct SLAM Triggered by Single Loop Closure for Large-Scale Mapping
2020-09-29
In this paper, we present a multi-agent framework for real-time large-scale 3D reconstruction applications. In SLAM, researchers usually build and update a 3D map after applying non-linear pose graph optimization techniques. Moreover, many multi-agent systems are prevalently using odometry information from additional sensors. These methods generally involve intensive computer vision algorithms and are tightly coupled with various sensors. We develop a generic method for the keychallenging scenarios in multi-agent 3D mapping based on different camera systems. The proposed framework performs actively in terms of localizing each agent after the first loop closure between them. It is shown that the proposed system only uses monocular cameras to yield real-time multi-agent large-scale localization and 3D global mapping. Based on the initial matching, our system can calculate the optimal scale difference between multiple 3D maps and then estimate an accurate relative pose transformation for large-scale global mapping.

583
3D Dense Geometry-Guided Facial Expression Synthesis by Adversarial Learning
2020-09-30
Manipulating facial expressions is a challenging task due to fine-grained shape changes produced by facial muscles and the lack of input-output pairs for supervised learning. Unlike previous methods using Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN), which rely on cycle-consistency loss or sparse geometry (landmarks) loss for expression synthesis, we propose a novel GAN framework to exploit 3D dense (depth and surface normals) information for expression manipulation. However, a large-scale dataset containing RGB images with expression annotations and their corresponding depth maps is not available. To this end, we propose to use an off-the-shelf state-of-the-art 3D reconstruction model to estimate the depth and create a large-scale RGB-Depth dataset after a manual data clean-up process. We utilise this dataset to minimise the novel depth consistency loss via adversarial learning (note we do not have ground truth depth maps for generated face images) and the depth categorical loss of synthetic data on the discriminator. In addition, to improve the generalisation and lower the bias of the depth parameters, we propose to use a novel confidence regulariser on the discriminator side of the framework. We extensively performed both quantitative and qualitative evaluations on two publicly available challenging facial expression benchmarks: AffectNet and RaFD. Our experiments demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms the competitive baseline and existing arts by a large margin.

584
Image-based underwater 3D reconstruction for Cultural Heritage: from image collection to 3D. Critical steps and considerations
2020-10-02
Underwater Cultural Heritage (CH) sites are widely spread; from ruins in coastlines up to shipwrecks in deep. The documentation and preservation of this heritage is an obligation of the mankind, dictated also by the international treaties like the Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Her-itage which fosters the use of "non-destructive techniques and survey meth-ods in preference over the recovery of objects". However, submerged CH lacks in protection and monitoring in regards to the land CH and nowadays recording and documenting, for digital preservation as well as dissemination through VR to wide public, is of most importance. At the same time, it is most difficult to document it, due to inherent restrictions posed by the environ-ment. In order to create high detailed textured 3D models, optical sensors and photogrammetric techniques seems to be the best solution. This chapter dis-cusses critical aspects of all phases of image based underwater 3D reconstruc-tion process, from data acquisition and data preparation using colour restora-tion and colour enhancement algorithms to Structure from Motion (SfM) and Multi-View Stereo (MVS) techniques to produce an accurate, precise and complete 3D model for a number of applications.

585
An Efficient Protocol for Distributed Column Subset Selection in the Entrywise $\ell_p$ Norm
2021-01-01
We give a distributed protocol with nearly-optimal communication and number of rounds for Column Subset Selection with respect to the entrywise {$\ell_1$} norm ($k$-CSS$_1$), and more generally, for the $\ell_p$-norm with $1 \leq p < 2$.
We study matrix factorization in $\ell_1$-norm loss, rather than the more standard Frobenius norm loss, because the $\ell_1$ norm is more robust to noise. This loss function arises naturally in a wide range of computer vision and robotics problems, such as 3D reconstruction and structure-from-motion. In the distributed setting, we consider $s$ servers in the standard coordinator model of communication, where the columns of the input matrix $A \in \mathbb{R}^{d \times n}$ ($n \gg d$) are distributed across the $s$ servers.
We give a protocol in this model with 
$\tilde{O}(sdk)$
communication, $1$ round, and polynomial running time, and which achieves a multiplicative $k^{\frac{1}{p} - \frac{1}{2}}\poly(\log nd)$-approximation to the best possible column subset. 
A key ingredient in our proof is the reduction to the $\ell_{p,2}$-norm, which corresponds to the $p$-norm of the vector of Euclidean norms of each of the columns of $A$. This enables us to use strong coreset constructions for Euclidean norms, which previously had not been used in this context. This naturally also allows us to implement
our algorithm in the popular streaming model of computation. 
We further propose a greedy algorithm for selecting columns, which can be used by the coordinator, and show the first provable guarantees for a greedy algorithm for the $\ell_{1,2}$ norm. Finally, we implement our protocol and give significant practical advantages on real data sets.

586
Probabilistic 3D surface reconstruction from sparse MRI information
2020-10-05
Surface reconstruction from magnetic resonance (MR) imaging data is indispensable in medical image analysis and clinical research. A reliable and effective reconstruction tool should: be fast in prediction of accurate well localised and high resolution models, evaluate prediction uncertainty, work with as little input data as possible. Current deep learning state of the art (SOTA) 3D reconstruction methods, however, often only produce shapes of limited variability positioned in a canonical position or lack uncertainty evaluation. In this paper, we present a novel probabilistic deep learning approach for concurrent 3D surface reconstruction from sparse 2D MR image data and aleatoric uncertainty prediction. Our method is capable of reconstructing large surface meshes from three quasi-orthogonal MR imaging slices from limited training sets whilst modelling the location of each mesh vertex through a Gaussian distribution. Prior shape information is encoded using a built-in linear principal component analysis (PCA) model. Extensive experiments on cardiac MR data show that our probabilistic approach successfully assesses prediction uncertainty while at the same time qualitatively and quantitatively outperforms SOTA methods in shape prediction. Compared to SOTA, we are capable of properly localising and orientating the prediction via the use of a spatially aware neural network.

587
A simulation environment for drone cinematography
2020-10-03
In this paper, we present a workflow for the simulation of drone operations exploiting realistic background environments constructed within Unreal Engine 4 (UE4). Methods for environmental image capture, 3D reconstruction (photogrammetry) and the creation of foreground assets are presented along with a flexible and user-friendly simulation interface. Given the geographical location of the selected area and the camera parameters employed, the scanning strategy and its associated flight parameters are first determined for image capture. Source imagery can be extracted from virtual globe software or obtained through aerial photography of the scene (e.g. using drones). The latter case is clearly more time consuming but can provide enhanced detail, particularly where coverage of virtual globe software is limited. The captured images are then used to generate 3D background environment models employing photogrammetry software. The reconstructed 3D models are then imported into the simulation interface as background environment assets together with appropriate foreground object models as a basis for shot planning and rehearsal. The tool supports both free-flight and parameterisable standard shot types along with programmable scenarios associated with foreground assets and event dynamics. It also supports the exporting of flight plans. Camera shots can also be designed to provide suitable coverage of any landmarks which need to appear in-shot. This simulation tool will contribute to enhanced productivity, improved safety (awareness and mitigations for crowds and buildings), improved confidence of operators and directors and ultimately enhanced quality of viewer experience.

588
SDF-SRN: Learning Signed Distance 3D Object Reconstruction from Static Images
2020-10-20
Dense 3D object reconstruction from a single image has recently witnessed remarkable advances, but supervising neural networks with ground-truth 3D shapes is impractical due to the laborious process of creating paired image-shape datasets. Recent efforts have turned to learning 3D reconstruction without 3D supervision from RGB images with annotated 2D silhouettes, dramatically reducing the cost and effort of annotation. These techniques, however, remain impractical as they still require multi-view annotations of the same object instance during training. As a result, most experimental efforts to date have been limited to synthetic datasets. In this paper, we address this issue and propose SDF-SRN, an approach that requires only a single view of objects at training time, offering greater utility for real-world scenarios. SDF-SRN learns implicit 3D shape representations to handle arbitrary shape topologies that may exist in the datasets. To this end, we derive a novel differentiable rendering formulation for learning signed distance functions (SDF) from 2D silhouettes. Our method outperforms the state of the art under challenging single-view supervision settings on both synthetic and real-world datasets.

589
GAMesh: Guided and Augmented Meshing for Deep Point Networks
2020-10-19
We present a new meshing algorithm called guided and augmented meshing, GAMesh, which uses a mesh prior to generate a surface for the output points of a point network. By projecting the output points onto this prior and simplifying the resulting mesh, GAMesh ensures a surface with the same topology as the mesh prior but whose geometric fidelity is controlled by the point network. This makes GAMesh independent of both the density and distribution of the output points, a common artifact in traditional surface reconstruction algorithms. We show that such a separation of geometry from topology can have several advantages especially in single-view shape prediction, fair evaluation of point networks and reconstructing surfaces for networks which output sparse point clouds. We further show that by training point networks with GAMesh, we can directly optimize the vertex positions to generate adaptive meshes with arbitrary topologies.

590
Learning to Guide Local Feature Matches
2020-10-21
We tackle the problem of finding accurate and robust keypoint correspondences between images. We propose a learning-based approach to guide local feature matches via a learned approximate image matching. Our approach can boost the results of SIFT to a level similar to state-of-the-art deep descriptors, such as Superpoint, ContextDesc, or D2-Net and can improve performance for these descriptors. We introduce and study different levels of supervision to learn coarse correspondences. In particular, we show that weak supervision from epipolar geometry leads to performances higher than the stronger but more biased point level supervision and is a clear improvement over weak image level supervision. We demonstrate the benefits of our approach in a variety of conditions by evaluating our guided keypoint correspondences for localization of internet images on the YFCC100M dataset and indoor images on theSUN3D dataset, for robust localization on the Aachen day-night benchmark and for 3D reconstruction in challenging conditions using the LTLL historical image data.

591
Improving the generalization of network based relative pose regression: dimension reduction as a regularizer
2020-10-24
Visual localization occupies an important position in many areas such as Augmented Reality, robotics and 3D reconstruction. The state-of-the-art visual localization methods perform pose estimation using geometry based solver within the RANSAC framework. However, these methods require accurate pixel-level matching at high image resolution, which is hard to satisfy under significant changes from appearance, dynamics or perspective of view. End-to-end learning based regression networks provide a solution to circumvent the requirement for precise pixel-level correspondences, but demonstrate poor performance towards cross-scene generalization. In this paper, we explicitly add a learnable matching layer within the network to isolate the pose regression solver from the absolute image feature values, and apply dimension regularization on both the correlation feature channel and the image scale to further improve performance towards generalization and large viewpoint change. We implement this dimension regularization strategy within a two-layer pyramid based framework to regress the localization results from coarse to fine. In addition, the depth information is fused for absolute translational scale recovery. Through experiments on real world RGBD datasets we validate the effectiveness of our design in terms of improving both generalization performance and robustness towards viewpoint change, and also show the potential of regression based visual localization networks towards challenging occasions that are difficult for geometry based visual localization methods.

592
3D Multi-bodies: Fitting Sets of Plausible 3D Human Models to Ambiguous Image Data
2020-11-02
We consider the problem of obtaining dense 3D reconstructions of humans from single and partially occluded views. In such cases, the visual evidence is usually insufficient to identify a 3D reconstruction uniquely, so we aim at recovering several plausible reconstructions compatible with the input data. We suggest that ambiguities can be modelled more effectively by parametrizing the possible body shapes and poses via a suitable 3D model, such as SMPL for humans. We propose to learn a multi-hypothesis neural network regressor using a best-of-M loss, where each of the M hypotheses is constrained to lie on a manifold of plausible human poses by means of a generative model. We show that our method outperforms alternative approaches in ambiguous pose recovery on standard benchmarks for 3D humans, and in heavily occluded versions of these benchmarks.

593
Learning Deformable Tetrahedral Meshes for 3D Reconstruction
2020-11-03
3D shape representations that accommodate learning-based 3D reconstruction are an open problem in machine learning and computer graphics. Previous work on neural 3D reconstruction demonstrated benefits, but also limitations, of point cloud, voxel, surface mesh, and implicit function representations. We introduce Deformable Tetrahedral Meshes (DefTet) as a particular parameterization that utilizes volumetric tetrahedral meshes for the reconstruction problem. Unlike existing volumetric approaches, DefTet optimizes for both vertex placement and occupancy, and is differentiable with respect to standard 3D reconstruction loss functions. It is thus simultaneously high-precision, volumetric, and amenable to learning-based neural architectures. We show that it can represent arbitrary, complex topology, is both memory and computationally efficient, and can produce high-fidelity reconstructions with a significantly smaller grid size than alternative volumetric approaches. The predicted surfaces are also inherently defined as tetrahedral meshes, thus do not require post-processing. We demonstrate that DefTet matches or exceeds both the quality of the previous best approaches and the performance of the fastest ones. Our approach obtains high-quality tetrahedral meshes computed directly from noisy point clouds, and is the first to showcase high-quality 3D tet-mesh results using only a single image as input. Our project webpage: https://nv-tlabs.github.io/DefTet/

594
Realtime CNN-based Keypoint Detector with Sobel Filter and CNN-based Descriptor Trained with Keypoint Candidates
2020-11-04
The local feature detector and descriptor are essential in many computer vision tasks, such as SLAM and 3D reconstruction. In this paper, we introduce two separate CNNs, lightweight SobelNet and DesNet, to detect key points and to compute dense local descriptors. The detector and the descriptor work in parallel. Sobel filter provides the edge structure of the input images as the input of CNN. The locations of key points will be obtained after exerting the non-maximum suppression (NMS) process on the output map of the CNN. We design Gaussian loss for the training process of SobelNet to detect corner points as keypoints. At the same time, the input of DesNet is the original grayscale image, and circle loss is used to train DesNet. Besides, output maps of SobelNet are needed while training DesNet. We have evaluated our method on several benchmarks including HPatches benchmark, ETH benchmark, and FM-Bench. SobelNet achieves better or comparable performance with less computation compared with SOTA methods in recent years. The inference time of an image of 640x480 is 7.59ms and 1.09ms for SobelNet and DesNet respectively on RTX 2070 SUPER.

595
GPR-based Model Reconstruction System for Underground Utilities Using GPRNet
2020-11-05
Ground Penetrating Radar (GPR) is one of the most important non-destructive evaluation (NDE) instruments to detect and locate underground objects (i.e., rebars, utility pipes). Many previous researches focus on GPR image-based feature detection only, and none can process sparse GPR measurements to successfully reconstruct a very fine and detailed 3D model of underground objects for better visualization. To address this problem, this paper presents a novel robotic system to collect GPR data, localize the underground utilities, and reconstruct the underground objects' dense point cloud model. This system is composed of three modules: 1) visual-inertial-based GPR data collection module, which tags the GPR measurements with positioning information provided by an omnidirectional robot; 2) a deep neural network (DNN) migration module to interpret the raw GPR B-scan image into a cross-section of object model; 3) a DNN-based 3D reconstruction module, i.e., GPRNet, to generate underground utility model with the fine 3D point cloud. In this paper, both the quantitative and qualitative experiment results verify our method that can generate a dense and complete point cloud model of pipe-shaped utilities based on a sparse input, i.e., GPR raw data incompleteness and various noise. The experiment results on synthetic data and field test data further support the effectiveness of our approach.

596
Tattoo tomography: Freehand 3D photoacoustic image reconstruction with an optical pattern
2020-11-10
Purpose: Photoacoustic tomography (PAT) is a novel imaging technique that can spatially resolve both morphological and functional tissue properties, such as the vessel topology and tissue oxygenation. While this capacity makes PAT a promising modality for the diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of various diseases, a current drawback is the limited field-of-view (FoV) provided by the conventionally applied 2D probes. Methods: In this paper, we present a novel approach to 3D reconstruction of PAT data (Tattoo tomography) that does not require an external tracking system and can smoothly be integrated into clinical workflows. It is based on an optical pattern placed on the region of interest prior to image acquisition. This pattern is designed in a way that a tomographic image of it enables the recovery of the probe pose relative to the coordinate system of the pattern. This allows the transformation of a sequence of acquired PA images into one common global coordinate system and thus the consistent 3D reconstruction of PAT imaging data. Results: An initial feasibility study conducted with experimental phantom data and in vivo forearm data indicates that the Tattoo approach is well-suited for 3D reconstruction of PAT data with high accuracy and precision. Conclusion: In contrast to previous approaches to 3D ultrasound (US) or PAT reconstruction, the Tattoo approach neither requires complex external hardware nor training data acquired for a specific application. It could thus become a valuable tool for clinical freehand PAT.

597
Dynamic Plane Convolutional Occupancy Networks
2020-11-11
Learning-based 3D reconstruction using implicit neural representations has shown promising progress not only at the object level but also in more complicated scenes. In this paper, we propose Dynamic Plane Convolutional Occupancy Networks, a novel implicit representation pushing further the quality of 3D surface reconstruction. The input noisy point clouds are encoded into per-point features that are projected onto multiple 2D dynamic planes. A fully-connected network learns to predict plane parameters that best describe the shapes of objects or scenes. To further exploit translational equivariance, convolutional neural networks are applied to process the plane features. Our method shows superior performance in surface reconstruction from unoriented point clouds in ShapeNet as well as an indoor scene dataset. Moreover, we also provide interesting observations on the distribution of learned dynamic planes.

598
Relative Drone-Ground Vehicle Localization using LiDAR and Fisheye Cameras through Direct and Indirect Observations
2020-11-13
Estimating the pose of an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) or drone is a challenging task. It is useful for many applications such as navigation, surveillance, tracking objects on the ground, and 3D reconstruction. In this work, we present a LiDAR-camera-based relative pose estimation method between a drone and a ground vehicle, using a LiDAR sensor and a fisheye camera on the vehicle's roof and another fisheye camera mounted under the drone. The LiDAR sensor directly observes the drone and measures its position, and the two cameras estimate the relative orientation using indirect observation of the surrounding objects. We propose a dynamically adaptive kernel-based method for drone detection and tracking using the LiDAR. We detect vanishing points in both cameras and find their correspondences to estimate the relative orientation. Additionally, we propose a rotation correction technique by relying on the observed motion of the drone through the LiDAR. In our experiments, we were able to achieve very fast initial detection and real-time tracking of the drone. Our method is fully automatic.

599
Dehazing Cost Volume for Deep Multi-view Stereo in Scattering Media with Airlight and Scattering Coefficient Estimation
2020-11-18
We propose a learning-based multi-view stereo (MVS) method in scattering media, such as fog or smoke, with a novel cost volume, called the dehazing cost volume. Images captured in scattering media are degraded due to light scattering and attenuation caused by suspended particles. This degradation depends on scene depth; thus, it is difficult for traditional MVS methods to evaluate photometric consistency because the depth is unknown before three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction. The dehazing cost volume can solve this chicken-and-egg problem of depth estimation and image restoration by computing the scattering effect using swept planes in the cost volume. We also propose a method of estimating scattering parameters, such as airlight, and a scattering coefficient, which are required for our dehazing cost volume. The output depth of a network with our dehazing cost volume can be regarded as a function of these parameters; thus, they are geometrically optimized with a sparse 3D point cloud obtained at a structure-from-motion step. Experimental results on synthesized hazy images indicate the effectiveness of our dehazing cost volume against the ordinary cost volume regarding scattering media. We also demonstrated the applicability of our dehazing cost volume to real foggy scenes.

600
Wide-angle Image Rectification: A Survey
2020-10-30
Wide field-of-view (FOV) cameras, which capture a larger scene area than narrow FOV cameras, are used in many applications including 3D reconstruction, autonomous driving, and video surveillance. However, wide-angle images contain distortions that violate the assumptions underlying pinhole camera models, resulting in object distortion, difficulties in estimating scene distance, area, and direction, and preventing the use of off-the-shelf deep models trained on undistorted images for downstream computer vision tasks. Image rectification, which aims to correct these distortions, can solve these problems. In this paper, we comprehensively survey progress in wide-angle image rectification from transformation models to rectification methods. Specifically, we first present a detailed description and discussion of the camera models used in different approaches. Then, we summarize several distortion models including radial distortion and projection distortion. Next, we review both traditional geometry-based image rectification methods and deep learning-based methods, where the former formulate distortion parameter estimation as an optimization problem and the latter treat it as a regression problem by leveraging the power of deep neural networks. We evaluate the performance of state-of-the-art methods on public datasets and show that although both kinds of methods can achieve good results, these methods only work well for specific camera models and distortion types. We also provide a strong baseline model and carry out an empirical study of different distortion models on synthetic datasets and real-world wide-angle images. Finally, we discuss several potential research directions that are expected to further advance this area in the future.

601
Attention Aware Cost Volume Pyramid Based Multi-view Stereo Network for 3D Reconstruction
2020-11-25
We present an efficient multi-view stereo (MVS) network for 3D reconstruction from multiview images. While previous learning based reconstruction approaches performed quite well, most of them estimate depth maps at a fixed resolution using plane sweep volumes with a fixed depth hypothesis at each plane, which requires densely sampled planes for desired accuracy and therefore is difficult to achieve high resolution depth maps. In this paper we introduce a coarseto-fine depth inference strategy to achieve high resolution depth. This strategy estimates the depth map at coarsest level, while the depth maps at finer levels are considered as the upsampled depth map from previous level with pixel-wise depth residual. Thus, we narrow the depth searching range with priori information from previous level and construct new cost volumes from the pixel-wise depth residual to perform depth map refinement. Then the final depth map could be achieved iteratively since all the parameters are shared between different levels. At each level, the self-attention layer is introduced to the feature extraction block for capturing the long range dependencies for depth inference task, and the cost volume is generated using similarity measurement instead of the variance based methods used in previous work. Experiments were conducted on both the DTU benchmark dataset and recently released BlendedMVS dataset. The results demonstrated that our model could outperform most state-of-the-arts (SOTA) methods. The codebase of this project is at https://github.com/ArthasMil/AACVP-MVSNet.

602
Convolutional Neural Networks for cytoarchitectonic brain mapping at large scale
2020-11-25
Human brain atlases provide spatial reference systems for data characterizing brain organization at different levels, coming from different brains. Cytoarchitecture is a basic principle of the microstructural organization of the brain, as regional differences in the arrangement and composition of neuronal cells are indicators of changes in connectivity and function. Automated scanning procedures and observer-independent methods are prerequisites to reliably identify cytoarchitectonic areas, and to achieve reproducible models of brain segregation. Time becomes a key factor when moving from the analysis of single regions of interest towards high-throughput scanning of large series of whole-brain sections. Here we present a new workflow for mapping cytoarchitectonic areas in large series of cell-body stained histological sections of human postmortem brains. It is based on a Deep Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), which is trained on a pair of section images with annotations, with a large number of un-annotated sections in between. The model learns to create all missing annotations in between with high accuracy, and faster than our previous workflow based on observer-independent mapping. The new workflow does not require preceding 3D-reconstruction of sections, and is robust against histological artefacts. It processes large data sets with sizes in the order of multiple Terabytes efficiently. The workflow was integrated into a web interface, to allow access without expertise in deep learning and batch computing. Applying deep neural networks for cytoarchitectonic mapping opens new perspectives to enable high-resolution models of brain areas, introducing CNNs to identify borders of brain areas.

603
Efficient Scene Compression for Visual-based Localization
2020-11-27
Estimating the pose of a camera with respect to a 3D reconstruction or scene representation is a crucial step for many mixed reality and robotics applications. Given the vast amount of available data nowadays, many applications constrain storage and/or bandwidth to work efficiently. To satisfy these constraints, many applications compress a scene representation by reducing its number of 3D points. While state-of-the-art methods use $K$-cover-based algorithms to compress a scene, they are slow and hard to tune. To enhance speed and facilitate parameter tuning, this work introduces a novel approach that compresses a scene representation by means of a constrained quadratic program (QP). Because this QP resembles a one-class support vector machine, we derive a variant of the sequential minimal optimization to solve it. Our approach uses the points corresponding to the support vectors as the subset of points to represent a scene. We also present an efficient initialization method that allows our method to converge quickly. Our experiments on publicly available datasets show that our approach compresses a scene representation quickly while delivering accurate pose estimates.

604
Descriptor-Free Multi-View Region Matching for Instance-Wise 3D Reconstruction
2020-11-27
This paper proposes a multi-view extension of instance segmentation without relying on texture or shape descriptor matching. Multi-view instance segmentation becomes challenging for scenes with repetitive textures and shapes, e.g., plant leaves, due to the difficulty of multi-view matching using texture or shape descriptors. To this end, we propose a multi-view region matching method based on epipolar geometry, which does not rely on any feature descriptors. We further show that the epipolar region matching can be easily integrated into instance segmentation and effective for instance-wise 3D reconstruction. Experiments demonstrate the improved accuracy of multi-view instance matching and the 3D reconstruction compared to the baseline methods.

605
PCLs: Geometry-aware Neural Reconstruction of 3D Pose with Perspective Crop Layers
2020-11-27
Local processing is an essential feature of CNNs and other neural network architectures - it is one of the reasons why they work so well on images where relevant information is, to a large extent, local. However, perspective effects stemming from the projection in a conventional camera vary for different global positions in the image. We introduce Perspective Crop Layers (PCLs) - a form of perspective crop of the region of interest based on the camera geometry - and show that accounting for the perspective consistently improves the accuracy of state-of-the-art 3D pose reconstruction methods. PCLs are modular neural network layers, which, when inserted into existing CNN and MLP architectures, deterministically remove the location-dependent perspective effects while leaving end-to-end training and the number of parameters of the underlying neural network unchanged. We demonstrate that PCL leads to improved 3D human pose reconstruction accuracy for CNN architectures that use cropping operations, such as spatial transformer networks (STN), and, somewhat surprisingly, MLPs used for 2D-to-3D keypoint lifting. Our conclusion is that it is important to utilize camera calibration information when available, for classical and deep-learning-based computer vision alike. PCL offers an easy way to improve the accuracy of existing 3D reconstruction networks by making them geometry aware. Our code is publicly available at github.com/yu-frank/PerspectiveCropLayers.

606
Where to Explore Next? ExHistCNN for History-aware Autonomous 3D Exploration
2020-11-30
In this work we address the problem of autonomous 3D exploration of an unknown indoor environment using a depth camera. We cast the problem as the estimation of the Next Best View (NBV) that maximises the coverage of the unknown area. We do this by re-formulating NBV estimation as a classification problem and we propose a novel learning-based metric that encodes both, the current 3D observation (a depth frame) and the history of the ongoing reconstruction. One of the major contributions of this work is about introducing a new representation for the 3D reconstruction history as an auxiliary utility map which is efficiently coupled with the current depth observation. With both pieces of information, we train a light-weight CNN, named ExHistCNN, that estimates the NBV as a set of directions towards which the depth sensor finds most unexplored areas. We perform extensive evaluation on both synthetic and real room scans demonstrating that the proposed ExHistCNN is able to approach the exploration performance of an oracle using the complete knowledge of the 3D environment.

607
Three-dimensional Segmentation of the Scoliotic Spine from MRI using Unsupervised Volume-based MR-CT Synthesis
2020-11-25
Vertebral bone segmentation from magnetic resonance (MR) images is a challenging task. Due to the inherent nature of the modality to emphasize soft tissues of the body, common thresholding algorithms are ineffective in detecting bones in MR images. On the other hand, it is relatively easier to segment bones from CT images because of the high contrast between bones and the surrounding regions. For this reason, we perform a cross-modality synthesis between MR and CT domains for simple thresholding-based segmentation of the vertebral bones. However, this implicitly assumes the availability of paired MR-CT data, which is rare, especially in the case of scoliotic patients. In this paper, we present a completely unsupervised, fully three-dimensional (3D) cross-modality synthesis method for segmenting scoliotic spines. A 3D CycleGAN model is trained for an unpaired volume-to-volume translation across MR and CT domains. Then, the Otsu thresholding algorithm is applied to the synthesized CT volumes for easy segmentation of the vertebral bones. The resulting segmentation is used to reconstruct a 3D model of the spine. We validate our method on 28 scoliotic vertebrae in 3 patients by computing the point-to-surface mean distance between the landmark points for each vertebra obtained from pre-operative X-rays and the surface of the segmented vertebra. Our study results in a mean error of 3.41 $\pm$ 1.06 mm. Based on qualitative and quantitative results, we conclude that our method is able to obtain a good segmentation and 3D reconstruction of scoliotic spines, all after training from unpaired data in an unsupervised manner.

608
Facetwise Mesh Refinement for Multi-View Stereo
2020-12-01
Mesh refinement is a fundamental step for accurate Multi-View Stereo. It modifies the geometry of an initial manifold mesh to minimize the photometric error induced in a set of camera pairs. This initial mesh is usually the output of volumetric 3D reconstruction based on min-cut over Delaunay Triangulations. Such methods produce a significant amount of non-manifold vertices, therefore they require a vertex split step to explicitly repair them. In this paper, we extend this method to preemptively fix the non-manifold vertices by reasoning directly on the Delaunay Triangulation and avoid most vertex splits. The main contribution of this paper addresses the problem of choosing the camera pairs adopted by the refinement process. We treat the problem as a mesh labeling process, where each label corresponds to a camera pair. Differently from the state-of-the-art methods, which use each camera pair to refine all the visible parts of the mesh, we choose, for each facet, the best pair that enforces both the overall visibility and coverage. The refinement step is applied for each facet using only the camera pair selected. This facetwise refinement helps the process to be applied in the most evenly way possible.

609
PatchmatchNet: Learned Multi-View Patchmatch Stereo
2020-12-02
We present PatchmatchNet, a novel and learnable cascade formulation of Patchmatch for high-resolution multi-view stereo. With high computation speed and low memory requirement, PatchmatchNet can process higher resolution imagery and is more suited to run on resource limited devices than competitors that employ 3D cost volume regularization. For the first time we introduce an iterative multi-scale Patchmatch in an end-to-end trainable architecture and improve the Patchmatch core algorithm with a novel and learned adaptive propagation and evaluation scheme for each iteration. Extensive experiments show a very competitive performance and generalization for our method on DTU, Tanks & Temples and ETH3D, but at a significantly higher efficiency than all existing top-performing models: at least two and a half times faster than state-of-the-art methods with twice less memory usage.

610
3D Reconstruction of Heterogeneous Virus Particles with Statistical Geometric Symmetry
2016-11-21
In 3-D reconstruction problems, the image data obtained from cryo electron
microscopy is the projection of many heterogeneous instances of the object
under study (e.g., a virus). When the object is heterogeneous but has an
overall symmetry, it is natural to describe the object as stochastic with
symmetrical statistics. This paper presents a maximum likelihood reconstruction
approach which allows each object to lack symmetry while constraining the {\it
statistics} of the ensemble of objects to have symmetry. This algorithm is
demonstrated on bacteriophage HK97 and is contrasted with an existing algorithm
in which each object, while still heterogeneous, has the symmetry.
Reconstruction results show that the proposed algorithm eliminates
long-standing distortions in previous heterogeneity calculations associated
with symmetry axes, and provides estimates that make more biologically sense
than the estimates of existing algorithms.

611
Towards Automatic SAR-Optical Stereogrammetry over Urban Areas using Very High Resolution Imagery
2018-02-25
In this paper we discuss the potential and challenges regarding SAR-optical
stereogrammetry for urban areas, using very-high-resolution (VHR) remote
sensing imagery. Since we do this mainly from a geometrical point of view, we
first analyze the height reconstruction accuracy to be expected for different
stereogrammetric configurations. Then, we propose a strategy for simultaneous
tie point matching and 3D reconstruction, which exploits an epipolar-like
search window constraint. To drive the matching and ensure some robustness, we
combine different established handcrafted similarity measures. For the
experiments, we use real test data acquired by the Worldview-2, TerraSAR-X and
MEMPHIS sensors. Our results show that SAR-optical stereogrammetry using VHR
imagery is generally feasible with 3D positioning accuracies in the
meter-domain, although the matching of these strongly hetereogeneous
multi-sensor data remains very challenging. Keywords: Synthetic Aperture Radar
(SAR), optical images, remote sensing, data fusion, stereogrammetry

612
Optimal mechanical operation in the vicinity of curved vasculature
2018-06-20
It has been shown that geometrical, structural properties vary along the
length of the aortic arch. There is a scarcity of studies focus on the
variation in the vessel wall thickness of aortic arch. The central premise of
this study is that considering the variation in the vessel wall thickness along
the circumference of the aortic arch to be governed by the uniform stress
distribution across the vessel wall, meeting the principle of optimal
mechanical operation of which the distribution of stress across the vessel wall
is assumed to be uniform so as to create a favorable mechanical environment for
the mechanosensitive resident vascular cells. Aortic arch was created with
image-derived three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction technique. A
structure-motivated constitutive model was utilized in the numerical modeling
and direct boundary value problem was solved. Stress distribution across the
vessel wall under physiological loading condition was predicted in
circumferential direction to test the role of the wall thickness. The results
showed the variation of the vessel wall thickness in the circumferential
direction and uniform distribution of the circumferential stress in the aortic
wall which implies a favorable mechanical environment for the resident
mechano-sensitive vascular smooth muscle cells. Correlation of geometrical and
simulation data support the proposed principle of optimal mechanical operation
for the aortic arch.

613
Experimental Results of a 3D Millimeter-Wave Compressive-Reflector-Antenna Imaging System
2018-07-28
This letter presents the first experimental results of our three-dimensional
(3D) millimeter-wave (mm-wave) Compressive-Reflector-Antenna (CRA) imaging
system. In this prototype, the CRA is 3D-printed and coated with a metallic
spray to easily introduce pseudo-random scatterers on the surface of a
traditional reflector antenna (TRA). The CRA performs a pseudo random coding of
the incident wavefront, thus adding spatial diversity in the imaging region and
enabling the effective use of compressive sensing (CS) and imaging techniques.
The CRA is fed with a multiple-input-multiple-output (MIMO) radar, which
consists of four transmitting and four receiving ports. Consequently, the
mechanical scanning parts and phase shifters, which are necessary in
conventional physical or synthetic aperture arrays, are not needed in this
system. Experimental results show the effectiveness of the prototype to perform
a successful 3D reconstruction of a T-shaped metallic target.

614
Hieroglyph: Hierarchical Glia Graph Skeletonization and Matching
2019-03-26
Automatic 3D reconstruction of glia morphology is a powerful tool necessary
for investigating the role of microglia in neurological disorders in the
central nervous system. Current glia skeleton reconstruction techniques fail to
capture an accurate tracing of the processes over time, useful for the study of
the microglia motility and morphology in the brain during healthy and diseased
states. We propose Hieroglyph, a fully automatic temporal 3D skeleton
reconstruction algorithm for glia imaged via 3D multiphoton microscopy.
Hieroglyph yielded a 21% performance increase compared to state of the art
automatic skeleton reconstruction methods and outperforms the state of the art
in different measures of consistency on datasets of 3D images of microglia. The
results from this method provide a 3D graph and digital reconstruction of glia
useful for a myriad of morphological analyses that could impact studies in
brain immunology and disease.

615
EM-based approach to 3D reconstruction from single-waveform multispectral Lidar data
2019-12-12
In this paper, we present a novel Bayesian approach for estimating spectral
and range profiles from single-photon Lidar waveforms associated with single
surfaces in the photon-limited regime. In contrast to classical multispectral
Lidar signals, we consider a single Lidar waveform per pixel, whereby a single
detector is used to acquire information simultaneously at multiple wavelengths.
A new observation model based on a mixture of distributions is developed. It
relates the unknown parameters of interest to the observed waveforms containing
information from multiple wavelengths. Adopting a Bayesian approach, several
prior models are investigated and a stochastic Expectation-Maximization
algorithm is proposed to estimate the spectral and depth profiles. The
reconstruction performance and computational complexity of our approach are
assessed, for different prior models, through a series of experiments using
synthetic and real data under different observation scenarios. The results
obtained demonstrate a significant speed-up without significant degradation of
the reconstruction performance when compared to existing methods in the
photon-starved regime.

616
High-Accuracy Facial Depth Models derived from 3D Synthetic Data
2020-03-26
In this paper, we explore how synthetically generated 3D face models can be
used to construct a high accuracy ground truth for depth. This allows us to
train the Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) to solve facial depth estimation
problems. These models provide sophisticated controls over image variations
including pose, illumination, facial expressions and camera position. 2D
training samples can be rendered from these models, typically in RGB format,
together with depth information. Using synthetic facial animations, a dynamic
facial expression or facial action data can be rendered for a sequence of image
frames together with ground truth depth and additional metadata such as head
pose, light direction, etc. The synthetic data is used to train a CNN based
facial depth estimation system which is validated on both synthetic and real
images. Potential fields of application include 3D reconstruction, driver
monitoring systems, robotic vision systems, and advanced scene understanding.

617
Robust 3D reconstruction of dynamic scenes from single-photon lidar using Beta-divergences
2020-04-20
In this paper, we present a new algorithm for fast, online 3D reconstruction of dynamic scenes using times of arrival of photons recorded by single-photon detector arrays. One of the main challenges in 3D imaging using single-photon lidar in practical applications is the presence of strong ambient illumination which corrupts the data and can jeopardize the detection of peaks/surface in the signals. This background noise not only complicates the observation model classically used for 3D reconstruction but also the estimation procedure which requires iterative methods. In this work, we consider a new similarity measure for robust depth estimation, which allows us to use a simple observation model and a non-iterative estimation procedure while being robust to mis-specification of the background illumination model. This choice leads to a computationally attractive depth estimation procedure without significant degradation of the reconstruction performance. This new depth estimation procedure is coupled with a spatio-temporal model to capture the natural correlation between neighboring pixels and successive frames for dynamic scene analysis. The resulting online inference process is scalable and well suited for parallel implementation. The benefits of the proposed method are demonstrated through a series of experiments conducted with simulated and real single-photon lidar videos, allowing the analysis of dynamic scenes at 325 m observed under extreme ambient illumination conditions.

618
pixelNeRF: Neural Radiance Fields from One or Few Images
2020-12-03
We propose pixelNeRF, a learning framework that predicts a continuous neural scene representation conditioned on one or few input images. The existing approach for constructing neural radiance fields involves optimizing the representation to every scene independently, requiring many calibrated views and significant compute time. We take a step towards resolving these shortcomings by introducing an architecture that conditions a NeRF on image inputs in a fully convolutional manner. This allows the network to be trained across multiple scenes to learn a scene prior, enabling it to perform novel view synthesis in a feed-forward manner from a sparse set of views (as few as one). Leveraging the volume rendering approach of NeRF, our model can be trained directly from images with no explicit 3D supervision. We conduct extensive experiments on ShapeNet benchmarks for single image novel view synthesis tasks with held-out objects as well as entire unseen categories. We further demonstrate the flexibility of pixelNeRF by demonstrating it on multi-object ShapeNet scenes and real scenes from the DTU dataset. In all cases, pixelNeRF outperforms current state-of-the-art baselines for novel view synthesis and single image 3D reconstruction. For the video and code, please visit the project website: https://alexyu.net/pixelnerf

619
Neural Deformation Graphs for Globally-consistent Non-rigid Reconstruction
2020-12-02
We introduce Neural Deformation Graphs for globally-consistent deformation tracking and 3D reconstruction of non-rigid objects. Specifically, we implicitly model a deformation graph via a deep neural network. This neural deformation graph does not rely on any object-specific structure and, thus, can be applied to general non-rigid deformation tracking. Our method globally optimizes this neural graph on a given sequence of depth camera observations of a non-rigidly moving object. Based on explicit viewpoint consistency as well as inter-frame graph and surface consistency constraints, the underlying network is trained in a self-supervised fashion. We additionally optimize for the geometry of the object with an implicit deformable multi-MLP shape representation. Our approach does not assume sequential input data, thus enabling robust tracking of fast motions or even temporally disconnected recordings. Our experiments demonstrate that our Neural Deformation Graphs outperform state-of-the-art non-rigid reconstruction approaches both qualitatively and quantitatively, with 64% improved reconstruction and 62% improved deformation tracking performance.

620
3D-NVS: A 3D Supervision Approach for Next View Selection
2020-12-03
We present a classification based approach for the next best view selection and show how we can plausibly obtain a supervisory signal for this task. The proposed approach is end-to-end trainable and aims to get the best possible 3D reconstruction quality with a pair of passively acquired 2D views. The proposed model consists of two stages: a classifier and a reconstructor network trained jointly via the indirect 3D supervision from ground truth voxels. While testing, the proposed method assumes no prior knowledge of the underlying 3D shape for selecting the next best view. We demonstrate the proposed method's effectiveness via detailed experiments on synthetic and real images and show how it provides improved reconstruction quality than the existing state of the art 3D reconstruction and the next best view prediction techniques.

621
Isometric Multi-Shape Matching
2020-12-04
Finding correspondences between shapes is a fundamental problem in computer vision and graphics, which is relevant for many applications, including 3D reconstruction, object tracking, and style transfer. The vast majority of correspondence methods aim to find a solution between pairs of shapes, even if multiple instances of the same class are available. While isometries are often studied in shape correspondence problems, they have not been considered explicitly in the multi-matching setting. This paper closes this gap by proposing a novel optimisation formulation for isometric multi-shape matching. We present a suitable optimisation algorithm for solving our formulation and provide a convergence and complexity analysis. Our algorithm obtains multi-matchings that are by construction provably cycle-consistent. We demonstrate the superior performance of our method on various datasets and set the new state-of-the-art in isometric multi-shape matching.

622
Automated Calibration of Mobile Cameras for 3D Reconstruction of Mechanical Pipes
2020-12-04
This manuscript provides a new framework for calibration of optical instruments, in particular mobile cameras, using large-scale circular black and white target fields. New methods were introduced for (i) matching targets between images; (ii) adjusting the systematic eccentricity error of target centers; and (iii) iteratively improving the calibration solution through a free-network self-calibrating bundle adjustment. It was observed that the proposed target matching effectively matched circular targets in 270 mobile phone images from a complete calibration laboratory with robustness to Type II errors. The proposed eccentricity adjustment, which requires only camera projective matrices from two views, behaved synonymous to available closed-form solutions, which require several additional object space target information a priori. Finally, specifically for the case of the mobile devices, the calibration parameters obtained using our framework was found superior compared to in-situ calibration for estimating the 3D reconstructed radius of a mechanical pipe (approximately 45% improvement).

623
Online Adaptation for Consistent Mesh Reconstruction in the Wild
2020-12-06
This paper presents an algorithm to reconstruct temporally consistent 3D meshes of deformable object instances from videos in the wild. Without requiring annotations of 3D mesh, 2D keypoints, or camera pose for each video frame, we pose video-based reconstruction as a self-supervised online adaptation problem applied to any incoming test video. We first learn a category-specific 3D reconstruction model from a collection of single-view images of the same category that jointly predicts the shape, texture, and camera pose of an image. Then, at inference time, we adapt the model to a test video over time using self-supervised regularization terms that exploit temporal consistency of an object instance to enforce that all reconstructed meshes share a common texture map, a base shape, as well as parts. We demonstrate that our algorithm recovers temporally consistent and reliable 3D structures from videos of non-rigid objects including those of animals captured in the wild -- an extremely challenging task rarely addressed before.

624
Boosting Image Super-Resolution Via Fusion of Complementary Information Captured by Multi-Modal Sensors
2020-12-07
Image Super-Resolution (SR) provides a promising technique to enhance the image quality of low-resolution optical sensors, facilitating better-performing target detection and autonomous navigation in a wide range of robotics applications. It is noted that the state-of-the-art SR methods are typically trained and tested using single-channel inputs, neglecting the fact that the cost of capturing high-resolution images in different spectral domains varies significantly. In this paper, we attempt to leverage complementary information from a low-cost channel (visible/depth) to boost image quality of an expensive channel (thermal) using fewer parameters. To this end, we first present an effective method to virtually generate pixel-wise aligned visible and thermal images based on real-time 3D reconstruction of multi-modal data captured at various viewpoints. Then, we design a feature-level multispectral fusion residual network model to perform high-accuracy SR of thermal images by adaptively integrating co-occurrence features presented in multispectral images. Experimental results demonstrate that this new approach can effectively alleviate the ill-posed inverse problem of image SR by taking into account complementary information from an additional low-cost channel, significantly outperforming state-of-the-art SR approaches in terms of both accuracy and efficiency.

625
E3D: Event-Based 3D Shape Reconstruction
2020-12-09
3D shape reconstruction is a primary component of augmented/virtual reality. Despite being highly advanced, existing solutions based on RGB, RGB-D and Lidar sensors are power and data intensive, which introduces challenges for deployment in edge devices. We approach 3D reconstruction with an event camera, a sensor with significantly lower power, latency and data expense while enabling high dynamic range. While previous event-based 3D reconstruction methods are primarily based on stereo vision, we cast the problem as multi-view shape from silhouette using a monocular event camera. The output from a moving event camera is a sparse point set of space-time gradients, largely sketching scene/object edges and contours. We first introduce an event-to-silhouette (E2S) neural network module to transform a stack of event frames to the corresponding silhouettes, with additional neural branches for camera pose regression. Second, we introduce E3D, which employs a 3D differentiable renderer (PyTorch3D) to enforce cross-view 3D mesh consistency and fine-tune the E2S and pose network. Lastly, we introduce a 3D-to-events simulation pipeline and apply it to publicly available object datasets and generate synthetic event/silhouette training pairs for supervised learning.

626
DI-Fusion: Online Implicit 3D Reconstruction with Deep Priors
2020-12-10
Previous online 3D dense reconstruction methods struggle to achieve the balance between memory storage and surface quality, largely due to the usage of stagnant underlying geometry representation, such as TSDF (truncated signed distance functions) or surfels, without any knowledge of the scene priors. In this paper, we present DI-Fusion (Deep Implicit Fusion), based on a novel 3D representation, i.e. Probabilistic Local Implicit Voxels (PLIVoxs), for online 3D reconstruction with a commodity RGB-D camera. Our PLIVox encodes scene priors considering both the local geometry and uncertainty parameterized by a deep neural network. With such deep priors, we are able to perform online implicit 3D reconstruction achieving state-of-the-art camera trajectory estimation accuracy and mapping quality, while achieving better storage efficiency compared with previous online 3D reconstruction approaches. Our implementation is available at https://www.github.com/huangjh-pub/di-fusion.

627
Independent Sign Language Recognition with 3D Body, Hands, and Face Reconstruction
2020-11-24
Independent Sign Language Recognition is a complex visual recognition problem that combines several challenging tasks of Computer Vision due to the necessity to exploit and fuse information from hand gestures, body features and facial expressions. While many state-of-the-art works have managed to deeply elaborate on these features independently, to the best of our knowledge, no work has adequately combined all three information channels to efficiently recognize Sign Language. In this work, we employ SMPL-X, a contemporary parametric model that enables joint extraction of 3D body shape, face and hands information from a single image. We use this holistic 3D reconstruction for SLR, demonstrating that it leads to higher accuracy than recognition from raw RGB images and their optical flow fed into the state-of-the-art I3D-type network for 3D action recognition and from 2D Openpose skeletons fed into a Recurrent Neural Network. Finally, a set of experiments on the body, face and hand features showed that neglecting any of these, significantly reduces the classification accuracy, proving the importance of jointly modeling body shape, facial expression and hand pose for Sign Language Recognition.

628
3D Scattering Tomography by Deep Learning with Architecture Tailored to Cloud Fields
2020-12-10
We present 3DeepCT, a deep neural network for computed tomography, which performs 3D reconstruction of scattering volumes from multi-view images. Our architecture is dictated by the stationary nature of atmospheric cloud fields. The task of volumetric scattering tomography aims at recovering a volume from its 2D projections. This problem has been studied extensively, leading, to diverse inverse methods based on signal processing and physics models. However, such techniques are typically iterative, exhibiting high computational load and long convergence time. We show that 3DeepCT outperforms physics-based inverse scattering methods in term of accuracy as well as offering a significant orders of magnitude improvement in computational time. To further improve the recovery accuracy, we introduce a hybrid model that combines 3DeepCT and physics-based method. The resultant hybrid technique enjoys fast inference time and improved recovery performance.

629
D$^2$IM-Net: Learning Detail Disentangled Implicit Fields from Single Images
2020-12-11
We present the first single-view 3D reconstruction network aimed at recovering geometric details from an input image which encompass both topological shape structures and surface features. Our key idea is to train the network to learn a detail disentangled reconstruction consisting of two functions, one implicit field representing the coarse 3D shape and the other capturing the details. Given an input image, our network, coined D$^2$IM-Net, encodes it into global and local features which are respectively fed into two decoders. The base decoder uses the global features to reconstruct a coarse implicit field, while the detail decoder reconstructs, from the local features, two displacement maps, defined over the front and back sides of the captured object. The final 3D reconstruction is a fusion between the base shape and the displacement maps, with three losses enforcing the recovery of coarse shape, overall structure, and surface details via a novel Laplacian term.

630
GeoNet++: Iterative Geometric Neural Network with Edge-Aware Refinement for Joint Depth and Surface Normal Estimation
2020-12-13
In this paper, we propose a geometric neural network with edge-aware refinement (GeoNet++) to jointly predict both depth and surface normal maps from a single image. Building on top of two-stream CNNs, GeoNet++ captures the geometric relationships between depth and surface normals with the proposed depth-to-normal and normal-to-depth modules. In particular, the "depth-to-normal" module exploits the least square solution of estimating surface normals from depth to improve their quality, while the "normal-to-depth" module refines the depth map based on the constraints on surface normals through kernel regression. Boundary information is exploited via an edge-aware refinement module. GeoNet++ effectively predicts depth and surface normals with strong 3D consistency and sharp boundaries resulting in better reconstructed 3D scenes. Note that GeoNet++ is generic and can be used in other depth/normal prediction frameworks to improve the quality of 3D reconstruction and pixel-wise accuracy of depth and surface normals. Furthermore, we propose a new 3D geometric metric (3DGM) for evaluating depth prediction in 3D. In contrast to current metrics that focus on evaluating pixel-wise error/accuracy, 3DGM measures whether the predicted depth can reconstruct high-quality 3D surface normals. This is a more natural metric for many 3D application domains. Our experiments on NYUD-V2 and KITTI datasets verify that GeoNet++ produces fine boundary details, and the predicted depth can be used to reconstruct high-quality 3D surfaces. Code has been made publicly available.

631
Learning Continuous Image Representation with Local Implicit Image Function
2020-12-16
How to represent an image? While the visual world is presented in a continuous manner, machines store and see the images in a discrete way with 2D arrays of pixels. In this paper, we seek to learn a continuous representation for images. Inspired by the recent progress in 3D reconstruction with implicit neural representation, we propose Local Implicit Image Function (LIIF), which takes an image coordinate and the 2D deep features around the coordinate as inputs, predicts the RGB value at a given coordinate as an output. Since the coordinates are continuous, LIIF can be presented in arbitrary resolution. To generate the continuous representation for images, we train an encoder with LIIF representation via a self-supervised task with super-resolution. The learned continuous representation can be presented in arbitrary resolution even extrapolate to x30 higher resolution, where the training tasks are not provided. We further show that LIIF representation builds a bridge between discrete and continuous representation in 2D, it naturally supports the learning tasks with size-varied image ground-truths and significantly outperforms the method with resizing the ground-truths.

632
A grid-point detection method based on U-net for a structured light system
2020-12-05
Accurate detection of the feature points of the projected pattern plays an extremely important role in one-shot 3D reconstruction systems, especially for the ones using a grid pattern. To solve this problem, this paper proposes a grid-point detection method based on U-net. A specific dataset is designed that includes the images captured with the two-shot imaging method and the ones acquired with the one-shot imaging method. Among them, the images in the first group after labeled as the ground truth images and the images captured at the same pose with the one-shot method are cut into small patches with the size of 64x64 pixels then feed to the training set. The remaining of the images in the second group is the test set. The experimental results show that our method can achieve a better detecting performance with higher accuracy in comparison with the previous methods.

633
Human Mesh Recovery from Multiple Shots
2020-12-17
Videos from edited media like movies are a useful, yet under-explored source of information. The rich variety of appearance and interactions between humans depicted over a large temporal context in these films could be a valuable source of data. However, the richness of data comes at the expense of fundamental challenges such as abrupt shot changes and close up shots of actors with heavy truncation, which limits the applicability of existing human 3D understanding methods. In this paper, we address these limitations with an insight that while shot changes of the same scene incur a discontinuity between frames, the 3D structure of the scene still changes smoothly. This allows us to handle frames before and after the shot change as multi-view signal that provide strong cues to recover the 3D state of the actors. We propose a multi-shot optimization framework, which leads to improved 3D reconstruction and mining of long sequences with pseudo ground truth 3D human mesh. We show that the resulting data is beneficial in the training of various human mesh recovery models: for single image, we achieve improved robustness; for video we propose a pure transformer-based temporal encoder, which can naturally handle missing observations due to shot changes in the input frames. We demonstrate the importance of the insight and proposed models through extensive experiments. The tools we develop open the door to processing and analyzing in 3D content from a large library of edited media, which could be helpful for many downstream applications. Project page: https://geopavlakos.github.io/multishot

634
Reconstructing Hand-Object Interactions in the Wild
2020-12-17
In this work we explore reconstructing hand-object interactions in the wild. The core challenge of this problem is the lack of appropriate 3D labeled data. To overcome this issue, we propose an optimization-based procedure which does not require direct 3D supervision. The general strategy we adopt is to exploit all available related data (2D bounding boxes, 2D hand keypoints, 2D instance masks, 3D object models, 3D in-the-lab MoCap) to provide constraints for the 3D reconstruction. Rather than optimizing the hand and object individually, we optimize them jointly which allows us to impose additional constraints based on hand-object contact, collision, and occlusion. Our method produces compelling reconstructions on the challenging in-the-wild data from the EPIC Kitchens and the 100 Days of Hands datasets, across a range of object categories. Quantitatively, we demonstrate that our approach compares favorably to existing approaches in the lab settings where ground truth 3D annotations are available.

635
Deep Event Stereo Leveraged by Event-to-Image Translation
2021-02-02
Depth estimation in real-world applications requires precise responses to fast motion and challenging lighting conditions. Event cameras use bio-inspired event-driven sensors that provide instantaneous and asynchronous information of pixel-level log intensity changes, which makes them suitable for depth estimation in such challenging conditions. However, as the event cameras primarily provide asynchronous and spatially sparse event data, it is hard to provide accurate dense disparity map in stereo event camera setups - especially in estimating disparities on local structures or edges. In this study, we develop a novel deep event stereo network that reconstructs spatial intensity image features from embedded event streams and leverages the event features using the reconstructed image features to compute dense disparity maps. To this end, we propose a novel event-to-image translation network with a cross-semantic attention mechanism that calculates the global semantic context of the event features for the intensity image reconstruction. In addition, a feature aggregation module is developed for accurate disparity estimation, which modulates the event features with the reconstructed image features by a stacked dilated spatially-adaptive denormalization mechanism. Experimental results reveal that our method can outperform the state-of-the-art methods by significant margins both in quantitative and qualitative measures.

636
Learning Complex 3D Human Self-Contact
2020-12-18
Monocular estimation of three dimensional human self-contact is fundamental for detailed scene analysis including body language understanding and behaviour modeling. Existing 3d reconstruction methods do not focus on body regions in self-contact and consequently recover configurations that are either far from each other or self-intersecting, when they should just touch. This leads to perceptually incorrect estimates and limits impact in those very fine-grained analysis domains where detailed 3d models are expected to play an important role. To address such challenges we detect self-contact and design 3d losses to explicitly enforce it. Specifically, we develop a model for Self-Contact Prediction (SCP), that estimates the body surface signature of self-contact, leveraging the localization of self-contact in the image, during both training and inference. We collect two large datasets to support learning and evaluation: (1) HumanSC3D, an accurate 3d motion capture repository containing $1,032$ sequences with $5,058$ contact events and $1,246,487$ ground truth 3d poses synchronized with images collected from multiple views, and (2) FlickrSC3D, a repository of $3,969$ images, containing $25,297$ surface-to-surface correspondences with annotated image spatial support. We also illustrate how more expressive 3d reconstructions can be recovered under self-contact signature constraints and present monocular detection of face-touch as one of the multiple applications made possible by more accurate self-contact models.

637
From Points to Multi-Object 3D Reconstruction
2020-12-21
We propose a method to detect and reconstruct multiple 3D objects from a single RGB image. The key idea is to optimize for detection, alignment and shape jointly over all objects in the RGB image, while focusing on realistic and physically plausible reconstructions. To this end, we propose a keypoint detector that localizes objects as center points and directly predicts all object properties, including 9-DoF bounding boxes and 3D shapes -- all in a single forward pass. The proposed method formulates 3D shape reconstruction as a shape selection problem, i.e. it selects among exemplar shapes from a given database. This makes it agnostic to shape representations, which enables a lightweight reconstruction of realistic and visually-pleasing shapes based on CAD-models, while the training objective is formulated around point clouds and voxel representations. A collision-loss promotes non-intersecting objects, further increasing the reconstruction realism. Given the RGB image, the presented approach performs lightweight reconstruction in a single-stage, it is real-time capable, fully differentiable and end-to-end trainable. Our experiments compare multiple approaches for 9-DoF bounding box estimation, evaluate the novel shape-selection mechanism and compare to recent methods in terms of 3D bounding box estimation and 3D shape reconstruction quality.

638
Self-supervised monocular depth estimation from oblique UAV videos
2020-12-19
UAVs have become an essential photogrammetric measurement as they are affordable, easily accessible and versatile. Aerial images captured from UAVs have applications in small and large scale texture mapping, 3D modelling, object detection tasks, DTM and DSM generation etc. Photogrammetric techniques are routinely used for 3D reconstruction from UAV images where multiple images of the same scene are acquired. Developments in computer vision and deep learning techniques have made Single Image Depth Estimation (SIDE) a field of intense research. Using SIDE techniques on UAV images can overcome the need for multiple images for 3D reconstruction. This paper aims to estimate depth from a single UAV aerial image using deep learning. We follow a self-supervised learning approach, Self-Supervised Monocular Depth Estimation (SMDE), which does not need ground truth depth or any extra information other than images for learning to estimate depth. Monocular video frames are used for training the deep learning model which learns depth and pose information jointly through two different networks, one each for depth and pose. The predicted depth and pose are used to reconstruct one image from the viewpoint of another image utilising the temporal information from videos. We propose a novel architecture with two 2D CNN encoders and a 3D CNN decoder for extracting information from consecutive temporal frames. A contrastive loss term is introduced for improving the quality of image generation. Our experiments are carried out on the public UAVid video dataset. The experimental results demonstrate that our model outperforms the state-of-the-art methods in estimating the depths.

639
Rethinking Road Surface 3D Reconstruction and Pothole Detection: From Perspective Transformation to Disparity Map Segmentation
2020-12-19
Potholes are one of the most common forms of road damage, which can severely affect driving comfort, road safety and vehicle condition. Pothole detection is typically performed by either structural engineers or certified inspectors. This task is, however, not only hazardous for the personnel but also extremely time-consuming. This paper presents an efficient pothole detection algorithm based on road disparity map estimation and segmentation. We first generalize the perspective transformation by incorporating the stereo rig roll angle. The road disparities are then estimated using semi-global matching. A disparity map transformation algorithm is then performed to better distinguish the damaged road areas. Finally, we utilize simple linear iterative clustering to group the transformed disparities into a collection of superpixels. The potholes are then detected by finding the superpixels, whose values are lower than an adaptively determined threshold. The proposed algorithm is implemented on an NVIDIA RTX 2080 Ti GPU in CUDA. The experiments demonstrate the accuracy and efficiency of our proposed road pothole detection algorithm, where an accuracy of 99.6% and an F-score of 89.4% are achieved.

640
Towards Automatic Digital Documentation and Progress Reporting of Mechanical Construction Pipes using Smartphones
2020-12-20
This manuscript presents a new framework towards automated digital documentation and progress reporting of mechanical pipes in building construction projects, using smartphones. New methods were proposed to optimize video frame rate to achieve a desired image overlap; define metric scale for 3D reconstruction; extract pipes from point clouds; and classify pipes according to their planned bill of quantity radii. The effectiveness of the proposed methods in both laboratory (six pipes) and construction site (58 pipes) conditions was evaluated. It was observed that the proposed metric scale definition achieved sub-millimeter pipe radius estimation accuracy. Both laboratory and field experiments revealed that increasing the defined image overlap improved point cloud quality, pipe classification quality, and pipe radius/length estimation. Overall, it was found possible to achieve pipe classification F-measure, radius estimation accuracy, and length estimation percent error of 96.4%, 5.4mm, and 5.0%, respectively, on construction sites using at least 95% image overlap.

641
SERV-CT: A disparity dataset from CT for validation of endoscopic 3D reconstruction
2020-12-22
In computer vision, reference datasets have been highly successful in promoting algorithmic development in stereo reconstruction. Surgical scenes gives rise to specific problems, including the lack of clear corner features, highly specular surfaces and the presence of blood and smoke. Publicly available datasets have been produced using CT and either phantom images or biological tissue samples covering a relatively small region of the endoscope field-of-view. We present a stereo-endoscopic reconstruction validation dataset based on CT (SERV-CT). Two {\it ex vivo} small porcine full torso cadavers were placed within the view of the endoscope with both the endoscope and target anatomy visible in the CT scan. Orientation of the endoscope was manually aligned to the stereoscopic view. Reference disparities and occlusions were calculated for 8 stereo pairs from each sample. For the second sample an RGB surface was acquired to aid alignment of smooth, featureless surfaces. Repeated manual alignments showed an RMS disparity accuracy of ~2 pixels and a depth accuracy of ~2mm. The reference dataset includes endoscope image pairs with corresponding calibration, disparities, depths and occlusions covering the majority of the endoscopic image and a range of tissue types. Smooth specular surfaces and images with significant variation of depth are included. We assessed the performance of various stereo algorithms from online available repositories. There is a significant variation between algorithms, highlighting some of the challenges of surgical endoscopic images. The SERV-CT dataset provides an easy to use stereoscopic validation for surgical applications with smooth reference disparities and depths with coverage over the majority of the endoscopic images. This complements existing resources well and we hope will aid the development of surgical endoscopic anatomical reconstruction algorithms.

642
Analysis of Macula on Color Fundus Images Using Heightmap Reconstruction Through Deep Learning
2020-12-28
For medical diagnosis based on retinal images, a clear understanding of 3D structure is often required but due to the 2D nature of images captured, we cannot infer that information. However, by utilizing 3D reconstruction methods, we can recover the height information of the macula area on a fundus image which can be helpful for diagnosis and screening of macular disorders. Recent approaches have used shading information for heightmap prediction but their output was not accurate since they ignored the dependency between nearby pixels and only utilized shading information. Additionally, other methods were dependent on the availability of more than one image of the retina which is not available in practice. In this paper, motivated by the success of Conditional Generative Adversarial Networks(cGANs) and deeply supervised networks, we propose a novel architecture for the generator which enhances the details and the quality of output by progressive refinement and the use of deep supervision to reconstruct the height information of macula on a color fundus image. Comparisons on our own dataset illustrate that the proposed method outperforms all of the state-of-the-art methods in image translation and medical image translation on this particular task. Additionally, perceptual studies also indicate that the proposed method can provide additional information for ophthalmologists for diagnosis.

643
Learning Inter- and Intraframe Representations for Non-Lambertian Photometric Stereo
2020-12-26
Photometric stereo provides an important method for high-fidelity 3D reconstruction based on multiple intensity images captured under different illumination directions. In this paper, we present a complete framework, including a multilight source illumination and acquisition hardware system and a two-stage convolutional neural network (CNN) architecture, to construct inter- and intraframe representations for accurate normal estimation of non-Lambertian objects. We experimentally investigate numerous network design alternatives for identifying the optimal scheme to deploy inter- and intraframe feature extraction modules for the photometric stereo problem. Moreover, we propose utilizing the easily obtained object mask to eliminate adverse interference from invalid background regions in intraframe spatial convolutions, thus effectively improving the accuracy of normal estimation for surfaces made of dark materials or with cast shadows. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed masked two-stage photometric stereo CNN model (MT-PS-CNN) performs favourably against state-of-the-art photometric stereo techniques in terms of both accuracy and efficiency. In addition, the proposed method is capable of predicting accurate and rich surface normal details for non-Lambertian objects of complex geometry and performs stably given inputs captured in both sparse and dense lighting distributions.

644
Learning Accurate Dense Correspondences and When to Trust Them
2021-01-05
Establishing dense correspondences between a pair of images is an important and general problem. However, dense flow estimation is often inaccurate in the case of large displacements or homogeneous regions. For most applications and down-stream tasks, such as pose estimation, image manipulation, or 3D reconstruction, it is crucial to know when and where to trust the estimated matches. In this work, we aim to estimate a dense flow field relating two images, coupled with a robust pixel-wise confidence map indicating the reliability and accuracy of the prediction. We develop a flexible probabilistic approach that jointly learns the flow prediction and its uncertainty. In particular, we parametrize the predictive distribution as a constrained mixture model, ensuring better modelling of both accurate flow predictions and outliers. Moreover, we develop an architecture and training strategy tailored for robust and generalizable uncertainty prediction in the context of self-supervised training. Our approach obtains state-of-the-art results on multiple challenging geometric matching and optical flow datasets. We further validate the usefulness of our probabilistic confidence estimation for the task of pose estimation. Code and models are available at https://github.com/PruneTruong/PDCNet.

645
Weakly-Supervised Multi-Face 3D Reconstruction
2021-01-06
3D face reconstruction plays a very important role in many real-world multimedia applications, including digital entertainment, social media, affection analysis, and person identification. The de-facto pipeline for estimating the parametric face model from an image requires to firstly detect the facial regions with landmarks, and then crop each face to feed the deep learning-based regressor. Comparing to the conventional methods performing forward inference for each detected instance independently, we suggest an effective end-to-end framework for multi-face 3D reconstruction, which is able to predict the model parameters of multiple instances simultaneously using single network inference. Our proposed approach not only greatly reduces the computational redundancy in feature extraction but also makes the deployment procedure much easier using the single network model. More importantly, we employ the same global camera model for the reconstructed faces in each image, which makes it possible to recover the relative head positions and orientations in the 3D scene. We have conducted extensive experiments to evaluate our proposed approach on the sparse and dense face alignment tasks. The experimental results indicate that our proposed approach is very promising on face alignment tasks without fully-supervision and pre-processing like detection and crop. Our implementation is publicly available at \url{https://github.com/kalyo-zjl/WM3DR}.

646
Neural Network for 3D ICF Shell Reconstruction from Single Radiographs
2021-01-11
In inertial confinement fusion (ICF), X-ray radiography is a critical diagnostic for measuring implosion dynamics, which contains rich 3D information. Traditional methods for reconstructing 3D volumes from 2D radiographs, such as filtered backprojection, require radiographs from at least two different angles or lines of sight (LOS). In ICF experiments, space for diagnostics is limited and cameras that can operate on the fast timescales are expensive to implement, limiting the number of projections that can be acquired. To improve the imaging quality as a result of this limitation, convolutional neural networks (CNN) have recently been shown to be capable of producing 3D models from visible light images or medical X-ray images rendered by volumetric computed tomography LOS (SLOS). We propose a CNN to reconstruct 3D ICF spherical shells from single radiographs. We also examine sensitivity of the 3D reconstruction to different illumination models using preprocessing techniques such as pseudo-flat fielding. To resolve the issue of the lack of 3D supervision, we show that training the CNN utilizing synthetic radiographs produced by known simulation methods allows for reconstruction of experimental data as long as the experimental data is similar to the synthetic data. We also show that the CNN allows for 3D reconstruction of shells that possess low mode asymmetries. Further comparisons of the 3D reconstructions with direct multiple LOS measurements are justified.

647
Stereo camera system calibration: the need of two sets of parameters
2021-01-14
The reconstruction of a scene via a stereo-camera system is a two-steps process, where at first images from different cameras are matched to identify the set of point-to-point correspondences that then will actually be reconstructed in the three dimensional real world. The performance of the system strongly relies of the calibration procedure, which has to be carefully designed to guarantee optimal results. We implemented three different calibration methods and we compared their performance over 19 datasets. We present the experimental evidence that, due to the image noise, a single set of parameters is not sufficient to achieve high accuracy in the identification of the correspondences and in the 3D reconstruction at the same time. We propose to calibrate the system twice to estimate two different sets of parameters: the one obtained by minimizing the reprojection error that will be used when dealing with quantities defined in the 2D space of the cameras, and the one obtained by minimizing the reconstruction error that will be used when dealing with quantities defined in the real 3D world.

648
Kimera: from SLAM to Spatial Perception with 3D Dynamic Scene Graphs
2021-01-18
Humans are able to form a complex mental model of the environment they move in. This mental model captures geometric and semantic aspects of the scene, describes the environment at multiple levels of abstractions (e.g., objects, rooms, buildings), includes static and dynamic entities and their relations (e.g., a person is in a room at a given time). In contrast, current robots' internal representations still provide a partial and fragmented understanding of the environment, either in the form of a sparse or dense set of geometric primitives (e.g., points, lines, planes, voxels) or as a collection of objects. This paper attempts to reduce the gap between robot and human perception by introducing a novel representation, a 3D Dynamic Scene Graph(DSG), that seamlessly captures metric and semantic aspects of a dynamic environment. A DSG is a layered graph where nodes represent spatial concepts at different levels of abstraction, and edges represent spatio-temporal relations among nodes. Our second contribution is Kimera, the first fully automatic method to build a DSG from visual-inertial data. Kimera includes state-of-the-art techniques for visual-inertial SLAM, metric-semantic 3D reconstruction, object localization, human pose and shape estimation, and scene parsing. Our third contribution is a comprehensive evaluation of Kimera in real-life datasets and photo-realistic simulations, including a newly released dataset, uHumans2, which simulates a collection of crowded indoor and outdoor scenes. Our evaluation shows that Kimera achieves state-of-the-art performance in visual-inertial SLAM, estimates an accurate 3D metric-semantic mesh model in real-time, and builds a DSG of a complex indoor environment with tens of objects and humans in minutes. Our final contribution shows how to use a DSG for real-time hierarchical semantic path-planning. The core modules in Kimera are open-source.

649
A Marching Cube Algorithm Based on Edge Growth
2021-01-03
Marching Cube algorithm is currently one of the most popular 3D reconstruction surface rendering algorithms. It forms cube voxels through the input image, and then uses 15 basic topological configurations to extract the iso-surfaces in the voxels. It processes each cube voxel in a traversal manner, but it does not consider the relationship between iso-surfaces in adjacent cubes. Due to ambiguity, the final reconstructed model may have holes. We propose a Marching Cube algorithm based on edge growth. The algorithm first extracts seed triangles, then grows the seed triangles and reconstructs the entire 3D model. According to the position of the growth edge, we propose 17 topological configurations with iso-surfaces. From the reconstruction results, the algorithm can reconstruct the 3D model well. When only the main contour of the 3D model needs to be organized, the algorithm performs well. In addition, when there are multiple scattered parts in the data, the algorithm can extract only the 3D contours of the parts connected to the seed by setting the region selected by the seed.

650
Hybrid Rotation Averaging: A Fast and Robust Rotation Averaging Approach
2021-01-22
We address rotation averaging (RA) and its application to real-world 3D reconstruction. Local optimisation based approaches are the de facto choice, though they only guarantee a local optimum. Global optimisers ensure global optimality in low noise conditions, but they are inefficient and may easily deviate under the influence of outliers or elevated noise levels. We push the envelope of rotation averaging by leveraging the advantages of a global RA method and a local RA method. Combined with a fast view graph filtering as preprocessing, the proposed hybrid approach is robust to outliers. We further apply the proposed hybrid rotation averaging approach to incremental Structure from Motion (SfM), the accuracy and robustness of SfM are both improved by adding the resulting global rotations as regularisers to bundle adjustment. Overall, we demonstrate high practicality of the proposed method as bad camera poses are effectively corrected and drift is reduced.

651
VIO-Aided Structure from Motion Under Challenging Environments
2021-01-24
In this paper, we present a robust and efficient Structure from Motion pipeline for accurate 3D reconstruction under challenging environments by leveraging the camera pose information from a visual-inertial odometry. Specifically, we propose a geometric verification method to filter out mismatches by considering the prior geometric configuration of candidate image pairs. Furthermore, we introduce an efficient and scalable reconstruction approach that relies on batched image registration and robust bundle adjustment, both leveraging the reliable local odometry estimation. Extensive experimental results show that our pipeline performs better than the state-of-the-art SfM approaches in terms of reconstruction accuracy and robustness for challenging sequential image collections.

652
A metric for evaluating 3D reconstruction and mapping performance with no ground truthing
2021-01-25
It is not easy when evaluating 3D mapping performance because existing metrics require ground truth data that can only be collected with special instruments. In this paper, we propose a metric, dense map posterior (DMP), for this evaluation. It can work without any ground truth data. Instead, it calculates a comparable value, reflecting a map posterior probability, from dense point cloud observations. In our experiments, the proposed DMP is benchmarked against ground truth-based metrics. Results show that DMP can provide a similar evaluation capability. The proposed metric makes evaluating different methods more flexible and opens many new possibilities, such as self-supervised methods and more available datasets.

653
Consistent Recurrent Neural Networks for 3D Neuron Segmentation
2021-02-01
We present a recurrent network for the 3D reconstruction of neurons that sequentially generates binary masks for every object in an image with spatio-temporal consistency. Our network models consistency in two parts: (i) local, which allows exploring non-occluding and temporally-adjacent object relationships with bi-directional recurrence. (ii) non-local, which allows exploring long-range object relationships in the temporal domain with skip connections. Our proposed network is end-to-end trainable from an input image to a sequence of object masks, and, compared to methods relying on object boundaries, its output does not require post-processing. We evaluate our method on three benchmarks for neuron segmentation and achieved state-of-the-art performance on the SNEMI3D challenge.

654
Application of a Modified Harmony Search Algorithm in the Optimal Arrangement of a Novel Three Dimensional Multiphase Flow Imaging Device
2019-01-08
Gas-liquid two-phase flow is a typical flow, and bubble characteristic measurement is of great importance to study the flow mechanism and guide the practical fluid mechanical engineering. In this paper, a novel three dimensional (3D) multiphase flow imaging device was designed to measure the transparent object that has an opaque object in the center of the observed area. Its mathematical model was built and the constraints were defined based on the geometrical relationship and design requirements. A modified harmony search (HS) algorithm was integrated and applied to optimize the arrangement of the single-camera-multi-mirror device. As a case study, the 3D multiphase flow imaging method was applied in the the 3D reconstruction of the cavitation bubble cluster inside a water hydraulic valve. The statistics of the Pareto data shows the good performance of the modified HS algorithm. And the cavitation experimental results shows that the method is valid, and the cavitation bubble cluster can be reconstructed with quite high precision.

655
Rethinking Content and Style: Exploring Bias for Unsupervised Disentanglement
2021-02-21
Content and style (C-S) disentanglement intends to decompose the underlying explanatory factors of objects into two independent subspaces. From the unsupervised disentanglement perspective, we rethink content and style and propose a formulation for unsupervised C-S disentanglement based on our assumption that different factors are of different importance and popularity for image reconstruction, which serves as a data bias. The corresponding model inductive bias is introduced by our proposed C-S disentanglement Module (C-S DisMo), which assigns different and independent roles to content and style when approximating the real data distributions. Specifically, each content embedding from the dataset, which encodes the most dominant factors for image reconstruction, is assumed to be sampled from a shared distribution across the dataset. The style embedding for a particular image, encoding the remaining factors, is used to customize the shared distribution through an affine transformation. The experiments on several popular datasets demonstrate that our method achieves the state-of-the-art unsupervised C-S disentanglement, which is comparable or even better than supervised methods. We verify the effectiveness of our method by downstream tasks: domain translation and single-view 3D reconstruction. Project page at https://github.com/xrenaa/CS-DisMo.

656
A System for 3D Reconstruction Of Comminuted Tibial Plafond Bone Fractures
2021-02-23
High energy impacts at joint locations often generate highly fragmented, or comminuted, bone fractures. Current approaches for treatment require physicians to decide how to classify the fracture within a hierarchy fracture severity categories. Each category then provides a best-practice treatment scenario to obtain the best possible prognosis for the patient. This article identifies shortcomings associated with qualitative-only evaluation of fracture severity and provides new quantitative metrics that serve to address these shortcomings. We propose a system to semi-automatically extract quantitative metrics that are major indicators of fracture severity. These include: (i) fracture surface area, i.e., how much surface area was generated when the bone broke apart, and (ii) dispersion, i.e., how far the fragments have rotated and translated from their original anatomic positions. This article describes new computational tools to extract these metrics by computationally reconstructing 3D bone anatomy from CT images with a focus on tibial plafond fracture cases where difficult qualitative fracture severity cases are more prevalent. Reconstruction is accomplished within a single system that integrates several novel algorithms that identify, extract and piece-together fractured fragments in a virtual environment. Doing so provides objective quantitative measures for these fracture severity indicators. The availability of such measures provides new tools for fracture severity assessment which may lead to improved fracture treatment. This paper describes the system, the underlying algorithms and the metrics of the reconstruction results by quantitatively analyzing six clinical tibial plafond fracture cases.

657
$S^3$: Learnable Sparse Signal Superdensity for Guided Depth Estimation
2021-03-03
Dense depth estimation plays a key role in multiple applications such as robotics, 3D reconstruction, and augmented reality. While sparse signal, e.g., LiDAR and Radar, has been leveraged as guidance for enhancing dense depth estimation, the improvement is limited due to its low density and imbalanced distribution. To maximize the utility from the sparse source, we propose $S^3$ technique, which expands the depth value from sparse cues while estimating the confidence of expanded region. The proposed $S^3$ can be applied to various guided depth estimation approaches and trained end-to-end at different stages, including input, cost volume and output. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness, robustness, and flexibility of the $S^3$ technique on LiDAR and Radar signal.

658
A comprehensive survey on point cloud registration
2021-03-03
Registration is a transformation estimation problem between two point clouds, which has a unique and critical role in numerous computer vision applications. The developments of optimization-based methods and deep learning methods have improved registration robustness and efficiency. Recently, the combinations of optimization-based and deep learning methods have further improved performance. However, the connections between optimization-based and deep learning methods are still unclear. Moreover, with the recent development of 3D sensors and 3D reconstruction techniques, a new research direction emerges to align cross-source point clouds. This survey conducts a comprehensive survey, including both same-source and cross-source registration methods, and summarize the connections between optimization-based and deep learning methods, to provide further research insight. This survey also builds a new benchmark to evaluate the state-of-the-art registration algorithms in solving cross-source challenges. Besides, this survey summarizes the benchmark data sets and discusses point cloud registration applications across various domains. Finally, this survey proposes potential research directions in this rapidly growing field.

659
An Effective Loss Function for Generating 3D Models from Single 2D Image without Rendering
2021-03-05
Differentiable rendering is a very successful technique that applies to a Single-View 3D Reconstruction. Current renderers use losses based on pixels between a rendered image of some 3D reconstructed object and ground-truth images from given matched viewpoints to optimise parameters of the 3D shape. These models require a rendering step, along with visibility handling and evaluation of the shading model. The main goal of this paper is to demonstrate that we can avoid these steps and still get reconstruction results as other state-of-the-art models that are equal or even better than existing category-specific reconstruction methods. First, we use the same CNN architecture for the prediction of a point cloud shape and pose prediction like the one used by Insafutdinov & Dosovitskiy. Secondly, we propose the novel effective loss function that evaluates how well the projections of reconstructed 3D point clouds cover the ground truth object's silhouette. Then we use Poisson Surface Reconstruction to transform the reconstructed point cloud into a 3D mesh. Finally, we perform a GAN-based texture mapping on a particular 3D mesh and produce a textured 3D mesh from a single 2D image. We evaluate our method on different datasets (including ShapeNet, CUB-200-2011, and Pascal3D+) and achieve state-of-the-art results, outperforming all the other supervised and unsupervised methods and 3D representations, all in terms of performance, accuracy, and training time.

660
Look, Cast and Mold: Learning 3D Shape Manifold from Single-view Synthetic Data
2021-03-08
Inferring the stereo structure of objects in the real world is a challenging yet practical task. To equip deep models with this ability usually requires abundant 3D supervision which is hard to acquire. It is promising that we can simply benefit from synthetic data, where pairwise ground-truth is easy to access. Nevertheless, the domain gaps are nontrivial considering the variant texture, shape and context. To overcome these difficulties, we propose a Visio-Perceptual Adaptive Network for single-view 3D reconstruction, dubbed VPAN. To generalize the model towards a real scenario, we propose to fulfill several aspects: (1) Look: visually incorporate spatial structure from the single view to enhance the expressiveness of representation; (2) Cast: perceptually align the 2D image features to the 3D shape priors with cross-modal semantic contrastive mapping; (3) Mold: reconstruct stereo-shape of target by transforming embeddings into the desired manifold. Extensive experiments on several benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed method in learning the 3D shape manifold from synthetic data via a single-view. The proposed method outperforms state-of-the-arts on Pix3D dataset with IoU 0.292 and CD 0.108, and reaches IoU 0.329 and CD 0.104 on Pascal 3D+.

661
SMPLicit: Topology-aware Generative Model for Clothed People
2021-03-11
In this paper we introduce SMPLicit, a novel generative model to jointly represent body pose, shape and clothing geometry. In contrast to existing learning-based approaches that require training specific models for each type of garment, SMPLicit can represent in a unified manner different garment topologies (e.g. from sleeveless tops to hoodies and to open jackets), while controlling other properties like the garment size or tightness/looseness. We show our model to be applicable to a large variety of garments including T-shirts, hoodies, jackets, shorts, pants, skirts, shoes and even hair. The representation flexibility of SMPLicit builds upon an implicit model conditioned with the SMPL human body parameters and a learnable latent space which is semantically interpretable and aligned with the clothing attributes. The proposed model is fully differentiable, allowing for its use into larger end-to-end trainable systems. In the experimental section, we demonstrate SMPLicit can be readily used for fitting 3D scans and for 3D reconstruction in images of dressed people. In both cases we are able to go beyond state of the art, by retrieving complex garment geometries, handling situations with multiple clothing layers and providing a tool for easy outfit editing. To stimulate further research in this direction, we will make our code and model publicly available at http://www.iri.upc.edu/people/ecorona/smplicit/.

662
Multi-view data capture for dynamic object reconstruction using handheld augmented reality mobiles
2021-03-14
We propose a system to capture nearly-synchronous frame streams from multiple and moving handheld mobiles that is suitable for dynamic object 3D reconstruction. Each mobile executes Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping on-board to estimate its pose, and uses a wireless communication channel to send or receive synchronisation triggers. Our system can harvest frames and mobile poses in real time using a decentralised triggering strategy and a data-relay architecture that can be deployed either at the Edge or in the Cloud. We show the effectiveness of our system by employing it for 3D skeleton and volumetric reconstructions. Our triggering strategy achieves equal performance to that of an NTP-based synchronisation approach, but offers higher flexibility, as it can be adjusted online based on application needs. We created a challenging new dataset, namely 4DM, that involves six handheld augmented reality mobiles recording an actor performing sports actions outdoors. We validate our system on 4DM, analyse its strengths and limitations, and compare its modules with alternative ones.

663
Efficient Global Optimization of Non-differentiable, Symmetric Objectives for Multi Camera Placement
2021-03-20
We propose a novel iterative method for optimally placing and orienting multiple cameras in a 3D scene. Sample applications include improving the accuracy of 3D reconstruction, maximizing the covered area for surveillance, or improving the coverage in multi-viewpoint pedestrian tracking. Our algorithm is based on a block-coordinate ascent combined with a surrogate function and an exclusion area technique. This allows to flexibly handle difficult objective functions that are often expensive and quantized or non-differentiable. The solver is globally convergent and easily parallelizable. We show how to accelerate the optimization by exploiting special properties of the objective function, such as symmetry. Additionally, we discuss the trade-off between non-optimal stationary points and the cost reduction when optimizing the viewpoints consecutively.

664
Deep Implicit Moving Least-Squares Functions for 3D Reconstruction
2021-03-23
Point set is a flexible and lightweight representation widely used for 3D deep learning. However, their discrete nature prevents them from representing continuous and fine geometry, posing a major issue for learning-based shape generation. In this work, we turn the discrete point sets into smooth surfaces by introducing the well-known implicit moving least-squares (IMLS) surface formulation, which naturally defines locally implicit functions on point sets. We incorporate IMLS surface generation into deep neural networks for inheriting both the flexibility of point sets and the high quality of implicit surfaces. Our IMLSNet predicts an octree structure as a scaffold for generating MLS points where needed and characterizes shape geometry with learned local priors. Furthermore, our implicit function evaluation is independent of the neural network once the MLS points are predicted, thus enabling fast runtime evaluation. Our experiments on 3D object reconstruction demonstrate that IMLSNets outperform state-of-the-art learning-based methods in terms of reconstruction quality and computational efficiency. Extensive ablation tests also validate our network design and loss functions.

665
3D Reconstruction and Alignment by Consumer RGB-D Sensors and Fiducial Planar Markers for Patient Positioning in Radiation Therapy
2021-03-22
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Patient positioning is a crucial step in radiation therapy, for which non-invasive methods have been developed based on surface reconstruction using optical 3D imaging. However, most solutions need expensive specialized hardware and a careful calibration procedure that must be repeated over time.This paper proposes a fast and cheap patient positioning method based on inexpensive consumer level RGB-D sensors. METHODS: The proposed method relies on a 3D reconstruction approach that fuses, in real-time, artificial and natural visual landmarks recorded from a hand-held RGB-D sensor. The video sequence is transformed into a set of keyframes with known poses, that are later refined to obtain a realistic 3D reconstruction of the patient. The use of artificial landmarks allows our method to automatically align the reconstruction to a reference one, without the need of calibrating the system with respect to the linear accelerator coordinate system. RESULTS:The experiments conducted show that our method obtains a median of 1 cm in translational error, and 1 degree of rotational error with respect to reference pose. Additionally, the proposed method shows as visual output overlayed poses (from the reference and the current scene) and an error map that can be used to correct the patient's current pose to match the reference pose. CONCLUSIONS: A novel approach to obtain 3D body reconstructions for patient positioning without requiring expensive hardware or dedicated graphic cards is proposed. The method can be used to align in real time the patient's current pose to a preview pose, which is a relevant step in radiation therapy.

666
Multi-view 3D Reconstruction with Transformer
2021-03-24
Deep CNN-based methods have so far achieved the state of the art results in multi-view 3D object reconstruction. Despite the considerable progress, the two core modules of these methods - multi-view feature extraction and fusion, are usually investigated separately, and the object relations in different views are rarely explored. In this paper, inspired by the recent great success in self-attention-based Transformer models, we reformulate the multi-view 3D reconstruction as a sequence-to-sequence prediction problem and propose a new framework named 3D Volume Transformer (VolT) for such a task. Unlike previous CNN-based methods using a separate design, we unify the feature extraction and view fusion in a single Transformer network. A natural advantage of our design lies in the exploration of view-to-view relationships using self-attention among multiple unordered inputs. On ShapeNet - a large-scale 3D reconstruction benchmark dataset, our method achieves a new state-of-the-art accuracy in multi-view reconstruction with fewer parameters ($70\%$ less) than other CNN-based methods. Experimental results also suggest the strong scaling capability of our method. Our code will be made publicly available.

667
POSEFusion: Pose-guided Selective Fusion for Single-view Human Volumetric Capture
2021-03-29
We propose POse-guided SElective Fusion (POSEFusion), a single-view human volumetric capture method that leverages tracking-based methods and tracking-free inference to achieve high-fidelity and dynamic 3D reconstruction. By contributing a novel reconstruction framework which contains pose-guided keyframe selection and robust implicit surface fusion, our method fully utilizes the advantages of both tracking-based methods and tracking-free inference methods, and finally enables the high-fidelity reconstruction of dynamic surface details even in the invisible regions. We formulate the keyframe selection as a dynamic programming problem to guarantee the temporal continuity of the reconstructed sequence. Moreover, the novel robust implicit surface fusion involves an adaptive blending weight to preserve high-fidelity surface details and an automatic collision handling method to deal with the potential self-collisions. Overall, our method enables high-fidelity and dynamic capture in both visible and invisible regions from a single RGBD camera, and the results and experiments show that our method outperforms state-of-the-art methods.

668
MINE: Towards Continuous Depth MPI with NeRF for Novel View Synthesis
2021-03-27
In this paper, we propose MINE to perform novel view synthesis and depth estimation via dense 3D reconstruction from a single image. Our approach is a continuous depth generalization of the Multiplane Images (MPI) by introducing the NEural radiance fields (NeRF). Given a single image as input, MINE predicts a 4-channel image (RGB and volume density) at arbitrary depth values to jointly reconstruct the camera frustum and fill in occluded contents. The reconstructed and inpainted frustum can then be easily rendered into novel RGB or depth views using differentiable rendering. Extensive experiments on RealEstate10K, KITTI and Flowers Light Fields show that our MINE outperforms state-of-the-art by a large margin in novel view synthesis. We also achieve competitive results in depth estimation on iBims-1 and NYU-v2 without annotated depth supervision. Our source code is available at https://github.com/vincentfung13/MINE

669
Learning Efficient Photometric Feature Transform for Multi-view Stereo
2021-03-27
We present a novel framework to learn to convert the perpixel photometric information at each view into spatially distinctive and view-invariant low-level features, which can be plugged into existing multi-view stereo pipeline for enhanced 3D reconstruction. Both the illumination conditions during acquisition and the subsequent per-pixel feature transform can be jointly optimized in a differentiable fashion. Our framework automatically adapts to and makes efficient use of the geometric information available in different forms of input data. High-quality 3D reconstructions of a variety of challenging objects are demonstrated on the data captured with an illumination multiplexing device, as well as a point light. Our results compare favorably with state-of-the-art techniques.

670
A Bayesian approach for extracting free energy profiles from cryo-electron microscopy experiments using a path collective variable
2021-02-03
Cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) extracts single-particle density projections of individual biomolecules. Although cryo-EM is widely used for 3D reconstruction, due to its single-particle nature, it has the potential to provide information about the biomolecule's conformational variability and underlying free energy landscape. However, treating cryo-EM as a single-molecule technique is challenging because of the low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) in the individual particles. In this work, we developed the cryo-BIFE method, cryo-EM Bayesian Inference of Free Energy profiles, that uses a path collective variable to extract free energy profiles and their uncertainties from cryo-EM images. We tested the framework over several synthetic systems, where we controlled the imaging parameters and conditions. We found that for realistic cryo-EM environments and relevant biomolecular systems, it is possible to recover the underlying free energy, with the pose accuracy and SNR as crucial determinants. Then, we used the method to study the conformational transitions of a calcium-activated channel with real cryo-EM particles. Interestingly, we recover the most probable conformation (used to generate a high resolution reconstruction of the calcium-bound state), and we find two additional meta-stable states, one which corresponds to the calcium-unbound conformation. As expected for turnover transitions within the same sample, the activation barriers are of the order of a couple $k_BT$. Extracting free energy profiles from cryo-EM will enable a more complete characterization of the thermodynamic ensemble of biomolecules.

671
Heuristics for optimizing 3D mapping missions over swarm-powered ad hoc clouds
2021-03-11
Drones have been getting more and more popular in many economy sectors. Both scientific and industrial communities aim at making the impact of drones even more disruptive by empowering collaborative autonomous behaviors -- also known as swarming behaviors -- within fleets of multiple drones. In swarming-powered 3D mapping missions, unmanned aerial vehicles typically collect the aerial pictures of the target area whereas the 3D reconstruction process is performed in a centralized manner. However, such approaches do not leverage computational and storage resources from the swarm members.We address the optimization of a swarm-powered distributed 3D mapping mission for a real-life humanitarian emergency response application through the exploitation of a swarm-powered ad hoc cloud. Producing the relevant 3D maps in a timely manner, even when the cloud connectivity is not available, is crucial to increase the chances of success of the operation. In this work, we present a mathematical programming heuristic based on decomposition and a variable neighborhood search heuristic to minimize the completion time of the 3D reconstruction process necessary in such missions. Our computational results reveal that the proposed heuristics either quickly reach optimality or improve the best known solutions for almost all tested realistic instances comprising up to 1000 images and fifteen drones.

672
Learning monocular 3D reconstruction of articulated categories from motion
2021-03-30
Monocular 3D reconstruction of articulated object categories is challenging due to the lack of training data and the inherent ill-posedness of the problem. In this work we use video self-supervision, forcing the consistency of consecutive 3D reconstructions by a motion-based cycle loss. This largely improves both optimization-based and learning-based 3D mesh reconstruction. We further introduce an interpretable model of 3D template deformations that controls a 3D surface through the displacement of a small number of local, learnable handles. We formulate this operation as a structured layer relying on mesh-laplacian regularization and show that it can be trained in an end-to-end manner. We finally introduce a per-sample numerical optimisation approach that jointly optimises over mesh displacements and cameras within a video, boosting accuracy both for training and also as test time post-processing. While relying exclusively on a small set of videos collected per category for supervision, we obtain state-of-the-art reconstructions with diverse shapes, viewpoints and textures for multiple articulated object categories.

673
DynOcc: Learning Single-View Depth from Dynamic Occlusion Cues
2021-03-30
Recently, significant progress has been made in single-view depth estimation thanks to increasingly large and diverse depth datasets. However, these datasets are largely limited to specific application domains (e.g. indoor, autonomous driving) or static in-the-wild scenes due to hardware constraints or technical limitations of 3D reconstruction. In this paper, we introduce the first depth dataset DynOcc consisting of dynamic in-the-wild scenes. Our approach leverages the occlusion cues in these dynamic scenes to infer depth relationships between points of selected video frames. To achieve accurate occlusion detection and depth order estimation, we employ a novel occlusion boundary detection, filtering and thinning scheme followed by a robust foreground/background classification method. In total our DynOcc dataset contains 22M depth pairs out of 91K frames from a diverse set of videos. Using our dataset we achieved state-of-the-art results measured in weighted human disagreement rate (WHDR). We also show that the inferred depth maps trained with DynOcc can preserve sharper depth boundaries.

674
NeuralRecon: Real-Time Coherent 3D Reconstruction from Monocular Video
2021-04-01
We present a novel framework named NeuralRecon for real-time 3D scene reconstruction from a monocular video. Unlike previous methods that estimate single-view depth maps separately on each key-frame and fuse them later, we propose to directly reconstruct local surfaces represented as sparse TSDF volumes for each video fragment sequentially by a neural network. A learning-based TSDF fusion module based on gated recurrent units is used to guide the network to fuse features from previous fragments. This design allows the network to capture local smoothness prior and global shape prior of 3D surfaces when sequentially reconstructing the surfaces, resulting in accurate, coherent, and real-time surface reconstruction. The experiments on ScanNet and 7-Scenes datasets show that our system outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of both accuracy and speed. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first learning-based system that is able to reconstruct dense coherent 3D geometry in real-time.

675
Deep Two-View Structure-from-Motion Revisited
2021-04-01
Two-view structure-from-motion (SfM) is the cornerstone of 3D reconstruction and visual SLAM. Existing deep learning-based approaches formulate the problem by either recovering absolute pose scales from two consecutive frames or predicting a depth map from a single image, both of which are ill-posed problems. In contrast, we propose to revisit the problem of deep two-view SfM by leveraging the well-posedness of the classic pipeline. Our method consists of 1) an optical flow estimation network that predicts dense correspondences between two frames; 2) a normalized pose estimation module that computes relative camera poses from the 2D optical flow correspondences, and 3) a scale-invariant depth estimation network that leverages epipolar geometry to reduce the search space, refine the dense correspondences, and estimate relative depth maps. Extensive experiments show that our method outperforms all state-of-the-art two-view SfM methods by a clear margin on KITTI depth, KITTI VO, MVS, Scenes11, and SUN3D datasets in both relative pose and depth estimation.

676
Fostering Generalization in Single-view 3D Reconstruction by Learning a Hierarchy of Local and Global Shape Priors
2021-04-01
Single-view 3D object reconstruction has seen much progress, yet methods still struggle generalizing to novel shapes unseen during training. Common approaches predominantly rely on learned global shape priors and, hence, disregard detailed local observations. In this work, we address this issue by learning a hierarchy of priors at different levels of locality from ground truth input depth maps. We argue that exploiting local priors allows our method to efficiently use input observations, thus improving generalization in visible areas of novel shapes. At the same time, the combination of local and global priors enables meaningful hallucination of unobserved parts resulting in consistent 3D shapes. We show that the hierarchical approach generalizes much better than the global approach. It generalizes not only between different instances of a class but also across classes and to unseen arrangements of objects.

677
RetrievalFuse: Neural 3D Scene Reconstruction with a Database
2021-03-31
3D reconstruction of large scenes is a challenging problem due to the high-complexity nature of the solution space, in particular for generative neural networks. In contrast to traditional generative learned models which encode the full generative process into a neural network and can struggle with maintaining local details at the scene level, we introduce a new method that directly leverages scene geometry from the training database. First, we learn to synthesize an initial estimate for a 3D scene, constructed by retrieving a top-k set of volumetric chunks from the scene database. These candidates are then refined to a final scene generation with an attention-based refinement that can effectively select the most consistent set of geometry from the candidates and combine them together to create an output scene, facilitating transfer of coherent structures and local detail from train scene geometry. We demonstrate our neural scene reconstruction with a database for the tasks of 3D super resolution and surface reconstruction from sparse point clouds, showing that our approach enables generation of more coherent, accurate 3D scenes, improving on average by over 8% in IoU over state-of-the-art scene reconstruction.

678
Learning Transferable Kinematic Dictionary for 3D Human Pose and Shape Reconstruction
2021-04-02
Estimating 3D human pose and shape from a single image is highly under-constrained. To address this ambiguity, we propose a novel prior, namely kinematic dictionary, which explicitly regularizes the solution space of relative 3D rotations of human joints in the kinematic tree. Integrated with a statistical human model and a deep neural network, our method achieves end-to-end 3D reconstruction without the need of using any shape annotations during the training of neural networks. The kinematic dictionary bridges the gap between in-the-wild images and 3D datasets, and thus facilitates end-to-end training across all types of datasets. The proposed method achieves competitive results on large-scale datasets including Human3.6M, MPI-INF-3DHP, and LSP, while running in real-time given the human bounding boxes.

679
Fully Understanding Generic Objects: Modeling, Segmentation, and Reconstruction
2021-04-02
Inferring 3D structure of a generic object from a 2D image is a long-standing objective of computer vision. Conventional approaches either learn completely from CAD-generated synthetic data, which have difficulty in inference from real images, or generate 2.5D depth image via intrinsic decomposition, which is limited compared to the full 3D reconstruction. One fundamental challenge lies in how to leverage numerous real 2D images without any 3D ground truth. To address this issue, we take an alternative approach with semi-supervised learning. That is, for a 2D image of a generic object, we decompose it into latent representations of category, shape and albedo, lighting and camera projection matrix, decode the representations to segmented 3D shape and albedo respectively, and fuse these components to render an image well approximating the input image. Using a category-adaptive 3D joint occupancy field (JOF), we show that the complete shape and albedo modeling enables us to leverage real 2D images in both modeling and model fitting. The effectiveness of our approach is demonstrated through superior 3D reconstruction from a single image, being either synthetic or real, and shape segmentation.

680
Synergies Between Affordance and Geometry: 6-DoF Grasp Detection via Implicit Representations
2021-04-04
Grasp detection in clutter requires the robot to reason about the 3D scene from incomplete and noisy perception. In this work, we draw insight that 3D reconstruction and grasp learning are two intimately connected tasks, both of which require a fine-grained understanding of local geometry details. We thus propose to utilize the synergies between grasp affordance and 3D reconstruction through multi-task learning of a shared representation. Our model takes advantage of deep implicit functions, a continuous and memory-efficient representation, to enable differentiable training of both tasks. We train the model on self-supervised grasp trials data in simulation. Evaluation is conducted on a clutter removal task, where the robot clears cluttered objects by grasping them one at a time. The experimental results in simulation and on the real robot have demonstrated that the use of implicit neural representations and joint learning of grasp affordance and 3D reconstruction have led to state-of-the-art grasping results. Our method outperforms baselines by over 10% in terms of grasp success rate. Additional results and videos can be found at https://sites.google.com/view/rpl-giga2021

681
One Ring to Rule Them All: a simple solution to multi-view 3D-Reconstruction of shapes with unknown BRDF via a small Recurrent ResNet
2021-04-11
This paper proposes a simple method which solves an open problem of multi-view 3D-Reconstruction for objects with unknown and generic surface materials, imaged by a freely moving camera and a freely moving point light source. The object can have arbitrary (e.g. non-Lambertian), spatially-varying (or everywhere different) surface reflectances (svBRDF). Our solution consists of two smallsized neural networks (dubbed the 'Shape-Net' and 'BRDFNet'), each having about 1,000 neurons, used to parameterize the unknown shape and unknown svBRDF, respectively. Key to our method is a special network design (namely, a ResNet with a global feedback or 'ring' connection), which has a provable guarantee for finding a valid diffeomorphic shape parameterization. Despite the underlying problem is highly non-convex hence impractical to solve by traditional optimization techniques, our method converges reliably to high quality solutions, even without initialization. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our method, and it naturally enables a wide range of special-effect applications including novel-view-synthesis, relighting, material retouching, and shape exchange without additional coding effort. We encourage the reader to view our demo video for better visualizations.

682
Data-Driven 3D Reconstruction of Dressed Humans From Sparse Views
2021-04-16
Recently, data-driven single-view reconstruction methods have shown great progress in modeling 3D dressed humans. However, such methods suffer heavily from depth ambiguities and occlusions inherent to single view inputs. In this paper, we tackle this problem by considering a small set of input views and investigate the best strategy to suitably exploit information from these views. We propose a data-driven end-to-end approach that reconstructs an implicit 3D representation of dressed humans from sparse camera views. Specifically, we introduce three key components: first a spatially consistent reconstruction that allows for arbitrary placement of the person in the input views using a perspective camera model; second an attention-based fusion layer that learns to aggregate visual information from several viewpoints; and third a mechanism that encodes local 3D patterns under the multi-view context. In the experiments, we show the proposed approach outperforms the state of the art on standard data both quantitatively and qualitatively. To demonstrate the spatially consistent reconstruction, we apply our approach to dynamic scenes. Additionally, we apply our method on real data acquired with a multi-camera platform and demonstrate our approach can obtain results comparable to multi-view stereo with dramatically less views.

683
Temporal Consistency Loss for High Resolution Textured and Clothed 3DHuman Reconstruction from Monocular Video
2021-04-19
We present a novel method to learn temporally consistent 3D reconstruction of clothed people from a monocular video. Recent methods for 3D human reconstruction from monocular video using volumetric, implicit or parametric human shape models, produce per frame reconstructions giving temporally inconsistent output and limited performance when applied to video. In this paper, we introduce an approach to learn temporally consistent features for textured reconstruction of clothed 3D human sequences from monocular video by proposing two advances: a novel temporal consistency loss function; and hybrid representation learning for implicit 3D reconstruction from 2D images and coarse 3D geometry. The proposed advances improve the temporal consistency and accuracy of both the 3D reconstruction and texture prediction from a monocular video. Comprehensive comparative performance evaluation on images of people demonstrates that the proposed method significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art learning-based single image 3D human shape estimation approaches achieving significant improvement of reconstruction accuracy, completeness, quality and temporal consistency.

684
Real-time dense 3D Reconstruction from monocular video data captured by low-cost UAVs
2021-04-21
Real-time 3D reconstruction enables fast dense mapping of the environment which benefits numerous applications, such as navigation or live evaluation of an emergency. In contrast to most real-time capable approaches, our approach does not need an explicit depth sensor. Instead, we only rely on a video stream from a camera and its intrinsic calibration. By exploiting the self-motion of the unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) flying with oblique view around buildings, we estimate both camera trajectory and depth for selected images with enough novel content. To create a 3D model of the scene, we rely on a three-stage processing chain. First, we estimate the rough camera trajectory using a simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) algorithm. Once a suitable constellation is found, we estimate depth for local bundles of images using a Multi-View Stereo (MVS) approach and then fuse this depth into a global surfel-based model. For our evaluation, we use 55 video sequences with diverse settings, consisting of both synthetic and real scenes. We evaluate not only the generated reconstruction but also the intermediate products and achieve competitive results both qualitatively and quantitatively. At the same time, our method can keep up with a 30 fps video for a resolution of 768x448 pixels.

685
Soft Expectation and Deep Maximization for Image Feature Detection
2021-04-21
Central to the application of many multi-view geometry algorithms is the extraction of matching points between multiple viewpoints, enabling classical tasks such as camera pose estimation and 3D reconstruction. Many approaches that characterize these points have been proposed based on hand-tuned appearance models or data-driven learning methods. We propose Soft Expectation and Deep Maximization (SEDM), an iterative unsupervised learning process that directly optimizes the repeatability of the features by posing the problem in a similar way to expectation maximization (EM). We found convergence to be reliable and the new model to be more lighting invariant and better at localize the underlying 3D points in a scene, improving SfM quality when compared to other state of the art deep learning detectors.

686
Self-optimizing loop sifting and majorization for 3D reconstruction
2021-04-22
Visual simultaneous localization and mapping (vSLAM) and 3D reconstruction methods have gone through impressive progress. These methods are very promising for autonomous vehicle and consumer robot applications because they can map large-scale environments such as cities and indoor environments without the need for much human effort. However, when it comes to loop detection and optimization, there is still room for improvement. vSLAM systems tend to add the loops very conservatively to reduce the severe influence of the false loops. These conservative checks usually lead to correct loops rejected, thus decrease performance. In this paper, an algorithm that can sift and majorize loop detections is proposed. Our proposed algorithm can compare the usefulness and effectiveness of different loops with the dense map posterior (DMP) metric. The algorithm tests and decides the acceptance of each loop without a single user-defined threshold. Thus it is adaptive to different data conditions. The proposed method is general and agnostic to sensor type (as long as depth or LiDAR reading presents), loop detection, and optimization methods. Neither does it require a specific type of SLAM system. Thus it has great potential to be applied to various application scenarios. Experiments are conducted on public datasets. Results show that the proposed method outperforms state-of-the-art methods.

687
Computer vision in automated parking systems: Design, implementation and challenges
2021-04-26
Automated driving is an active area of research in both industry and academia. Automated Parking, which is automated driving in a restricted scenario of parking with low speed manoeuvring, is a key enabling product for fully autonomous driving systems. It is also an important milestone from the perspective of a higher end system built from the previous generation driver assistance systems comprising of collision warning, pedestrian detection, etc. In this paper, we discuss the design and implementation of an automated parking system from the perspective of computer vision algorithms. Designing a low-cost system with functional safety is challenging and leads to a large gap between the prototype and the end product, in order to handle all the corner cases. We demonstrate how camera systems are crucial for addressing a range of automated parking use cases and also, to add robustness to systems based on active distance measuring sensors, such as ultrasonics and radar. The key vision modules which realize the parking use cases are 3D reconstruction, parking slot marking recognition, freespace and vehicle/pedestrian detection. We detail the important parking use cases and demonstrate how to combine the vision modules to form a robust parking system. To the best of the authors' knowledge, this is the first detailed discussion of a systemic view of a commercial automated parking system.

688
D-OccNet: Detailed 3D Reconstruction Using Cross-Domain Learning
2021-04-28
Deep learning based 3D reconstruction of single view 2D image is becoming increasingly popular due to their wide range of real-world applications, but this task is inherently challenging because of the partial observability of an object from a single perspective. Recently, state of the art probability based Occupancy Networks reconstructed 3D surfaces from three different types of input domains: single view 2D image, point cloud and voxel. In this study, we extend the work on Occupancy Networks by exploiting cross-domain learning of image and point cloud domains. Specifically, we first convert the single view 2D image into a simpler point cloud representation, and then reconstruct a 3D surface from it. Our network, the Double Occupancy Network (D-OccNet) outperforms Occupancy Networks in terms of visual quality and details captured in the 3D reconstruction.

689
Using Adaptive Gradient for Texture Learning in Single-View 3D Reconstruction
2021-04-29
Recently, learning-based approaches for 3D model reconstruction have attracted attention owing to its modern applications such as Extended Reality(XR), robotics and self-driving cars. Several approaches presented good performance on reconstructing 3D shapes by learning solely from images, i.e., without using 3D models in training. Challenges, however, remain in texture generation due to the gap between 2D and 3D modals. In previous work, the grid sampling mechanism from Spatial Transformer Networks was adopted to sample color from an input image to formulate texture. Despite its success, the existing framework has limitations on searching scope in sampling, resulting in flaws in generated texture and consequentially on rendered 3D models. In this paper, to solve that issue, we present a novel sampling algorithm by optimizing the gradient of predicted coordinates based on the variance on the sampling image. Taking into account the semantics of the image, we adopt Frechet Inception Distance (FID) to form a loss function in learning, which helps bridging the gap between rendered images and input images. As a result, we greatly improve generated texture. Furthermore, to optimize 3D shape reconstruction and to accelerate convergence at training, we adopt part segmentation and template learning in our model. Without any 3D supervision in learning, and with only a collection of single-view 2D images, the shape and texture learned by our model outperform those from previous work. We demonstrate the performance with experimental results on a publically available dataset.

690
Robust joint registration of multiple stains and MRI for multimodal 3D histology reconstruction: Application to the Allen human brain atlas
2021-04-30
Joint registration of a stack of 2D histological sections to recover 3D structure (``3D histology reconstruction'') finds application in areas such as atlas building and validation of \emph{in vivo} imaging. Straightforward pairwise registration of neighbouring sections yields smooth reconstructions but has well-known problems such as ``banana effect'' (straightening of curved structures) and ``z-shift'' (drift). While these problems can be alleviated with an external, linearly aligned reference (e.g., Magnetic Resonance (MR) images), registration is often inaccurate due to contrast differences and the strong nonlinear distortion of the tissue, including artefacts such as folds and tears. In this paper, we present a probabilistic model of spatial deformation that yields reconstructions for multiple histological stains that that are jointly smooth, robust to outliers, and follow the reference shape. The model relies on a spanning tree of latent transforms connecting all the sections and slices of the reference volume, and assumes that the registration between any pair of images can be see as a noisy version of the composition of (possibly inverted) latent transforms connecting the two images. Bayesian inference is used to compute the most likely latent transforms given a set of pairwise registrations between image pairs within and across modalities. The framework is used for accurate 3D reconstruction of two stains (Nissl and parvalbumin) from the Allen human brain atlas, showing its benefits on real data with severe distortions. Moreover, we also provide the registration of the reconstructed volume to MNI space, bridging the gaps between two of the most widely used atlases in histology and MRI. The 3D reconstructed volumes and atlas registration can be downloaded from https://openneuro.org/datasets/ds003590. The code is freely available at https://github.com/acasamitjana/3dhirest.

691
Galois/monodromy groups for decomposing minimal problems in 3D reconstruction
2021-05-10
We consider Galois/monodromy groups arising in computer vision applications, with a view towards building more efficient polynomial solvers. The Galois/monodromy group allows us to decide when a given problem decomposes into algebraic subproblems, and whether or not it has any symmetries. Tools from numerical algebraic geometry and computational group theory allow us to apply this framework to classical and novel reconstruction problems. We consider three classical cases--3-point absolute pose, 5-point relative pose, and 4-point homography estimation for calibrated cameras--where the decomposition and symmetries may be naturally understood in terms of the Galois/monodromy group. We then show how our framework can be applied to novel problems from absolute and relative pose estimation. For instance, we discover new symmetries for absolute pose problems involving mixtures of point and line features. We also describe a problem of estimating a pair of calibrated homographies between three images. For this problem of degree 64, we can reduce the degree to 16; the latter better reflecting the intrinsic difficulty of algebraically solving the problem. As a byproduct, we obtain new constraints on compatible homographies, which may be of independent interest.

692
StrobeNet: Category-Level Multiview Reconstruction of Articulated Objects
2021-05-17
We present StrobeNet, a method for category-level 3D reconstruction of articulating objects from one or more unposed RGB images. Reconstructing general articulating object categories % has important applications, but is challenging since objects can have wide variation in shape, articulation, appearance and topology. We address this by building on the idea of category-level articulation canonicalization -- mapping observations to a canonical articulation which enables correspondence-free multiview aggregation. Our end-to-end trainable neural network estimates feature-enriched canonical 3D point clouds, articulation joints, and part segmentation from one or more unposed images of an object. These intermediate estimates are used to generate a final implicit 3D reconstruction.Our approach reconstructs objects even when they are observed in different articulations in images with large baselines, and animation of reconstructed shapes. Quantitative and qualitative evaluations on different object categories show that our method is able to achieve high reconstruction accuracy, especially as more views are added.

693
Reconstructing Small 3D Objects in front of a Textured Background
2021-05-24
We present a technique for a complete 3D reconstruction of small objects moving in front of a textured background. It is a particular variation of multibody structure from motion, which specializes to two objects only. The scene is captured in several static configurations between which the relative pose of the two objects may change. We reconstruct every static configuration individually and segment the points locally by finding multiple poses of cameras that capture the scene's other configurations. Then, the local segmentation results are combined, and the reconstructions are merged into the resulting model of the scene. In experiments with real artifacts, we show that our approach has practical advantages when reconstructing 3D objects from all sides. In this setting, our method outperforms the state-of-the-art. We integrate our method into the state of the art 3D reconstruction pipeline COLMAP.

694
Multi-view 3D Reconstruction of a Texture-less Smooth Surface of Unknown Generic Reflectance
2021-05-25
Recovering the 3D geometry of a purely texture-less object with generally unknown surface reflectance (e.g. non-Lambertian) is regarded as a challenging task in multi-view reconstruction. The major obstacle revolves around establishing cross-view correspondences where photometric constancy is violated. This paper proposes a simple and practical solution to overcome this challenge based on a co-located camera-light scanner device. Unlike existing solutions, we do not explicitly solve for correspondence. Instead, we argue the problem is generally well-posed by multi-view geometrical and photometric constraints, and can be solved from a small number of input views. We formulate the reconstruction task as a joint energy minimization over the surface geometry and reflectance. Despite this energy is highly non-convex, we develop an optimization algorithm that robustly recovers globally optimal shape and reflectance even from a random initialization. Extensive experiments on both simulated and real data have validated our method, and possible future extensions are discussed.

695
Geodesy of irregular small bodies via neural density fields: geodesyNets
2021-05-27
We present a novel approach based on artificial neural networks, so-called geodesyNets, and present compelling evidence of their ability to serve as accurate geodetic models of highly irregular bodies using minimal prior information on the body. The approach does not rely on the body shape information but, if available, can harness it. GeodesyNets learn a three-dimensional, differentiable, function representing the body density, which we call neural density field. The body shape, as well as other geodetic properties, can easily be recovered. We investigate six different shapes including the bodies 101955 Bennu, 67P Churyumov-Gerasimenko, 433 Eros and 25143 Itokawa for which shape models developed during close proximity surveys are available. Both heterogeneous and homogeneous mass distributions are considered. The gravitational acceleration computed from the trained geodesyNets models, as well as the inferred body shape, show great accuracy in all cases with a relative error on the predicted acceleration smaller than 1\% even close to the asteroid surface. When the body shape information is available, geodesyNets can seamlessly exploit it and be trained to represent a high-fidelity neural density field able to give insights into the internal structure of the body. This work introduces a new unexplored approach to geodesy, adding a powerful tool to consolidated ones based on spherical harmonics, mascon models and polyhedral gravity.

696
Three-dimensional multimodal medical imaging system based on free-hand ultrasound and structured light
2021-05-29
We propose a three-dimensional (3D) multimodal medical imaging system that combines freehand ultrasound and structured light 3D reconstruction in a single coordinate system without requiring registration. To the best of our knowledge, these techniques have not been combined before as a multimodal imaging technique. The system complements the internal 3D information acquired with ultrasound, with the external surface measured with the structure light technique. Moreover, the ultrasound probe's optical tracking for pose estimation was implemented based on a convolutional neural network. Experimental results show the system's high accuracy and reproducibility, as well as its potential for preoperative and intraoperative applications. The experimental multimodal error, or the distance from two surfaces obtained with different modalities, was 0.12 mm. The code is available as a Github repository.

697
Robotic Inspection of Underground Utilities for Construction Survey Using a Ground Penetrating Radar
2021-06-03
Ground Penetrating Radar (GPR) is a very useful non-destructive evaluation (NDE) device for locating and mapping underground assets prior to digging and trenching efforts in construction. This paper presents a novel robotic system to automate the GPR data collection process, localize the underground utilities, interpret and reconstruct the underground objects for better visualization allowing regular non-professional users to understand the survey results. This system is composed of three modules: 1) an Omni-directional robotic data collection platform, that carries an RGB-D camera with an Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) and a GPR antenna to perform automatic GPR data collection, and tag each GPR measurement with visual positioning information at every sampling step; 2) a learning-based migration module to interpret the raw GPR B-scan image into a 2D cross-section model of objects; 3) a 3D reconstruction module, i.e., GPRNet, to generate underground utility model represented as fine 3D point cloud. Comparative studies are performed on synthetic data and field GPR raw data with various incompleteness and noise. Experimental results demonstrate that our proposed method achieves a $30.0\%$ higher GPR imaging accuracy in mean Intersection Over Union (IoU) than the conventional back projection (BP) migration approach and $6.9\%$-$7.2\%$ less loss in Chamfer Distance (CD) than baseline methods regarding point cloud model reconstruction. The GPR-based robotic inspection provides an effective tool for civil engineers to detect and survey underground utilities before construction.

698
Shape As Points: A Differentiable Poisson Solver
2021-06-07
In recent years, neural implicit representations gained popularity in 3D reconstruction due to their expressiveness and flexibility. However, the implicit nature of neural implicit representations results in slow inference time and requires careful initialization. In this paper, we revisit the classic yet ubiquitous point cloud representation and introduce a differentiable point-to-mesh layer using a differentiable formulation of Poisson Surface Reconstruction (PSR) that allows for a GPU-accelerated fast solution of the indicator function given an oriented point cloud. The differentiable PSR layer allows us to efficiently and differentiably bridge the explicit 3D point representation with the 3D mesh via the implicit indicator field, enabling end-to-end optimization of surface reconstruction metrics such as Chamfer distance. This duality between points and meshes hence allows us to represent shapes as oriented point clouds, which are explicit, lightweight and expressive. Compared to neural implicit representations, our Shape-As-Points (SAP) model is more interpretable, lightweight, and accelerates inference time by one order of magnitude. Compared to other explicit representations such as points, patches, and meshes, SAP produces topology-agnostic, watertight manifold surfaces. We demonstrate the effectiveness of SAP on the task of surface reconstruction from unoriented point clouds and learning-based reconstruction.

699
Neural Implicit 3D Shapes from Single Images with Spatial Patterns
2021-06-06
Neural implicit functions have achieved impressive results for reconstructing 3D shapes from single images. However, the image features for describing 3D point samplings of implicit functions are less effective when significant variations of occlusions, views, and appearances exist from the image. To better encode image features, we study a geometry-aware convolutional kernel to leverage geometric relationships of point samplings by the proposed \emph{spatial pattern}, i.e., a structured point set. Specifically, the kernel operates at 2D projections of 3D points from the spatial pattern. Supported by the spatial pattern, the 2D kernel encodes geometric information that is crucial for 3D reconstruction tasks, while traditional ones mainly consider appearance information. Furthermore, to enable the network to discover more adaptive spatial patterns for further capturing non-local contextual information, the kernel is devised to be deformable manipulated by a spatial pattern generator. Experimental results on both synthetic and real datasets demonstrate the superiority of the proposed method. Pre-trained models, codes, and data are available at https://github.com/yixin26/SVR-SP.

700
Drone-based AI and 3D Reconstruction for Digital Twin Augmentation
2021-05-20
Digital Twin is an emerging technology at the forefront of Industry 4.0, with the ultimate goal of combining the physical space and the virtual space. To date, the Digital Twin concept has been applied in many engineering fields, providing useful insights in the areas of engineering design, manufacturing, automation, and construction industry. While the nexus of various technologies opens up new opportunities with Digital Twin, the technology requires a framework to integrate the different technologies, such as the Building Information Model used in the Building and Construction industry. In this work, an Information Fusion framework is proposed to seamlessly fuse heterogeneous components in a Digital Twin framework from the variety of technologies involved. This study aims to augment Digital Twin in buildings with the use of AI and 3D reconstruction empowered by unmanned aviation vehicles. We proposed a drone-based Digital Twin augmentation framework with reusable and customisable components. A proof of concept is also developed, and extensive evaluation is conducted for 3D reconstruction and applications of AI for defect detection.

701
Learning Compositional Shape Priors for Few-Shot 3D Reconstruction
2021-06-11
The impressive performance of deep convolutional neural networks in single-view 3D reconstruction suggests that these models perform non-trivial reasoning about the 3D structure of the output space. Recent work has challenged this belief, showing that, on standard benchmarks, complex encoder-decoder architectures perform similarly to nearest-neighbor baselines or simple linear decoder models that exploit large amounts of per-category data. However, building large collections of 3D shapes for supervised training is a laborious process; a more realistic and less constraining task is inferring 3D shapes for categories with few available training examples, calling for a model that can successfully generalize to novel object classes. In this work we experimentally demonstrate that naive baselines fail in this few-shot learning setting, in which the network must learn informative shape priors for inference of new categories. We propose three ways to learn a class-specific global shape prior, directly from data. Using these techniques, we are able to capture multi-scale information about the 3D shape, and account for intra-class variability by virtue of an implicit compositional structure. Experiments on the popular ShapeNet dataset show that our method outperforms a zero-shot baseline by over 40%, and the current state-of-the-art by over 10%, in terms of relative performance, in the few-shot setting.

702
Mirror3D: Depth Refinement for Mirror Surfaces
2021-06-11
Despite recent progress in depth sensing and 3D reconstruction, mirror surfaces are a significant source of errors. To address this problem, we create the Mirror3D dataset: a 3D mirror plane dataset based on three RGBD datasets (Matterport3D, NYUv2 and ScanNet) containing 7,011 mirror instance masks and 3D planes. We then develop Mirror3DNet: a module that refines raw sensor depth or estimated depth to correct errors on mirror surfaces. Our key idea is to estimate the 3D mirror plane based on RGB input and surrounding depth context, and use this estimate to directly regress mirror surface depth. Our experiments show that Mirror3DNet significantly mitigates errors from a variety of input depth data, including raw sensor depth and depth estimation or completion methods.

703
ResDepth: A Deep Residual Prior For 3D Reconstruction From High-resolution Satellite Images
2021-06-15
Modern optical satellite sensors enable high-resolution stereo reconstruction from space. But the challenging imaging conditions when observing the Earth from space push stereo matching to its limits. In practice, the resulting digital surface models (DSMs) are fairly noisy and often do not attain the accuracy needed for high-resolution applications such as 3D city modeling. Arguably, stereo correspondence based on low-level image similarity is insufficient and should be complemented with a-priori knowledge about the expected surface geometry beyond basic local smoothness. To that end, we introduce ResDepth, a convolutional neural network that learns such an expressive geometric prior from example data. ResDepth refines an initial, raw stereo DSM while conditioning the refinement on the images. I.e., it acts as a smart, learned post-processing filter and can seamlessly complement any stereo matching pipeline. In a series of experiments, we find that the proposed method consistently improves stereo DSMs both quantitatively and qualitatively. We show that the prior encoded in the network weights captures meaningful geometric characteristics of urban design, which also generalize across different districts and even from one city to another. Moreover, we demonstrate that, by training on a variety of stereo pairs, ResDepth can acquire a sufficient degree of invariance against variations in imaging conditions and acquisition geometry.

704
Traffic4D: Single View Reconstruction of Repetitious Activity Using Longitudinal Self-Supervision
2021-07-16
Reconstructing 4D vehicular activity (3D space
and time) from cameras is useful for autonomous vehicles,
commuters and local authorities to plan for smarter and safer
cities. Traffic is inherently repetitious over long periods, yet
current deep learning-based 3D reconstruction methods have
not considered such repetitions and have difficulty generalizing
to new intersection-installed cameras. We present a novel
approach exploiting longitudinal (long-term) repetitious motion
as self-supervision to reconstruct 3D vehicular activity from a
video captured by a single fixed camera. Starting from offthe-shelf 2D keypoint detections, our algorithm optimizes 3D
vehicle shapes and poses, and then clusters their trajectories in
3D space. The 2D keypoints and trajectory clusters accumulated
over long-term are later used to improve the 2D and 3D
keypoints via self-supervision without any human annotation.
Our method improves reconstruction accuracy over state of
the art on scenes with a significant visual difference from the
keypoint detectors training data, and has many applications
including velocity estimation, anomaly detection and vehicle
counting. We demonstrate results on traffic videos captured
at multiple city intersections, collected using our smartphones,
YouTube, and other public datasets.

705
GelSight Wedge: Measuring High-Resolution 3D Contact Geometry with a Compact Robot Finger
2021-06-16
Vision-based tactile sensors have the potential to provide important contact geometry to localize the objective with visual occlusion. However, it is challenging to measure high-resolution 3D contact geometry for a compact robot finger, to simultaneously meet optical and mechanical constraints. In this work, we present the GelSight Wedge sensor, which is optimized to have a compact shape for robot fingers, while achieving high-resolution 3D reconstruction. We evaluate the 3D reconstruction under different lighting configurations, and extend the method from 3 lights to 1 or 2 lights. We demonstrate the flexibility of the design by shrinking the sensor to the size of a human finger for fine manipulation tasks. We also show the effectiveness and potential of the reconstructed 3D geometry for pose tracking in the 3D space.

706
THUNDR: Transformer-based 3D HUmaN Reconstruction with Markers
2021-06-17
We present THUNDR, a transformer-based deep neural network methodology to reconstruct the 3d pose and shape of people, given monocular RGB images. Key to our methodology is an intermediate 3d marker representation, where we aim to combine the predictive power of model-free-output architectures and the regularizing, anthropometrically-preserving properties of a statistical human surface model like GHUM -- a recently introduced, expressive full body statistical 3d human model, trained end-to-end. Our novel transformer-based prediction pipeline can focus on image regions relevant to the task, supports self-supervised regimes, and ensures that solutions are consistent with human anthropometry. We show state-of-the-art results on Human3.6M and 3DPW, for both the fully-supervised and the self-supervised models, for the task of inferring 3d human shape, joint positions, and global translation. Moreover, we observe very solid 3d reconstruction performance for difficult human poses collected in the wild.

707
RGB2Hands: Real-Time Tracking of 3D Hand Interactions from Monocular RGB Video
2021-06-22
Tracking and reconstructing the 3D pose and geometry of two hands in interaction is a challenging problem that has a high relevance for several human-computer interaction applications, including AR/VR, robotics, or sign language recognition. Existing works are either limited to simpler tracking settings (e.g., considering only a single hand or two spatially separated hands), or rely on less ubiquitous sensors, such as depth cameras. In contrast, in this work we present the first real-time method for motion capture of skeletal pose and 3D surface geometry of hands from a single RGB camera that explicitly considers close interactions. In order to address the inherent depth ambiguities in RGB data, we propose a novel multi-task CNN that regresses multiple complementary pieces of information, including segmentation, dense matchings to a 3D hand model, and 2D keypoint positions, together with newly proposed intra-hand relative depth and inter-hand distance maps. These predictions are subsequently used in a generative model fitting framework in order to estimate pose and shape parameters of a 3D hand model for both hands. We experimentally verify the individual components of our RGB two-hand tracking and 3D reconstruction pipeline through an extensive ablation study. Moreover, we demonstrate that our approach offers previously unseen two-hand tracking performance from RGB, and quantitatively and qualitatively outperforms existing RGB-based methods that were not explicitly designed for two-hand interactions. Moreover, our method even performs on-par with depth-based real-time methods.

708
Part-Aware Measurement for Robust Multi-View Multi-Human 3D Pose Estimation and Tracking
2021-06-22
This paper introduces an approach for multi-human 3D pose estimation and tracking based on calibrated multi-view. The main challenge lies in finding the cross-view and temporal correspondences correctly even when several human pose estimations are noisy. Compare to previous solutions that construct 3D poses from multiple views, our approach takes advantage of temporal consistency to match the 2D poses estimated with previously constructed 3D skeletons in every view. Therefore cross-view and temporal associations are accomplished simultaneously. Since the performance suffers from mistaken association and noisy predictions, we design two strategies for aiming better correspondences and 3D reconstruction. Specifically, we propose a part-aware measurement for 2D-3D association and a filter that can cope with 2D outliers during reconstruction. Our approach is efficient and effective comparing to state-of-the-art methods; it achieves competitive results on two benchmarks: 96.8% on Campus and 97.4% on Shelf. Moreover, we extends the length of Campus evaluation frames to be more challenging and our proposal also reach well-performed result.

709
DeepMesh: Differentiable Iso-Surface Extraction
2021-06-20
Geometric Deep Learning has recently made striking progress with the advent of continuous deep implicit fields. They allow for detailed modeling of watertight surfaces of arbitrary topology while not relying on a 3D Euclidean grid, resulting in a learnable parameterization that is unlimited in resolution. Unfortunately, these methods are often unsuitable for applications that require an explicit mesh-based surface representation because converting an implicit field to such a representation relies on the Marching Cubes algorithm, which cannot be differentiated with respect to the underlying implicit field. In this work, we remove this limitation and introduce a differentiable way to produce explicit surface mesh representations from Deep Implicit Fields. Our key insight is that by reasoning on how implicit field perturbations impact local surface geometry, one can ultimately differentiate the 3D location of surface samples with respect to the underlying deep implicit field. We exploit this to define DeepMesh - an end-to-end differentiable mesh representation that can vary its topology. We validate our theoretical insight through several applications: Single view 3D Reconstruction via Differentiable Rendering, Physically-Driven Shape Optimization, Full Scene 3D Reconstruction from Scans and End-to-End Training. In all cases our end-to-end differentiable parameterization gives us an edge over state-of-the-art algorithms.

710
LegoFormer: Transformers for Block-by-Block Multi-view 3D Reconstruction
2021-06-23
Most modern deep learning-based multi-view 3D reconstruction techniques use RNNs or fusion modules to combine information from multiple images after independently encoding them. These two separate steps have loose connections and do not allow easy information sharing among views. We propose LegoFormer, a transformer model for voxel-based 3D reconstruction that uses the attention layers to share information among views during all computational stages. Moreover, instead of predicting each voxel independently, we propose to parametrize the output with a series of low-rank decomposition factors. This reformulation allows the prediction of an object as a set of independent regular structures then aggregated to obtain the final reconstruction. Experiments conducted on ShapeNet demonstrate the competitive performance of our model with respect to the state of the art while having increased interpretability thanks to the self-attention layers. We also show promising generalization results to real data.

711
Kimera-Multi: Robust, Distributed, Dense Metric-Semantic SLAM for Multi-Robot Systems
2021-06-28
This paper presents Kimera-Multi, the first multi-robot system that (i) is robust and capable of identifying and rejecting incorrect inter and intra-robot loop closures resulting from perceptual aliasing, (ii) is fully distributed and only relies on local (peer-to-peer) communication to achieve distributed localization and mapping, and (iii) builds a globally consistent metric-semantic 3D mesh model of the environment in real-time, where faces of the mesh are annotated with semantic labels. Kimera-Multi is implemented by a team of robots equipped with visual-inertial sensors. Each robot builds a local trajectory estimate and a local mesh using Kimera. When communication is available, robots initiate a distributed place recognition and robust pose graph optimization protocol based on a novel distributed graduated non-convexity algorithm. The proposed protocol allows the robots to improve their local trajectory estimates by leveraging inter-robot loop closures while being robust to outliers. Finally, each robot uses its improved trajectory estimate to correct the local mesh using mesh deformation techniques. We demonstrate Kimera-Multi in photo-realistic simulations, SLAM benchmarking datasets, and challenging outdoor datasets collected using ground robots. Both real and simulated experiments involve long trajectories (e.g., up to 800 meters per robot). The experiments show that Kimera-Multi (i) outperforms the state of the art in terms of robustness and accuracy, (ii) achieves estimation errors comparable to a centralized SLAM system while being fully distributed, (iii) is parsimonious in terms of communication bandwidth, (iv) produces accurate metric-semantic 3D meshes, and (v) is modular and can be also used for standard 3D reconstruction (i.e., without semantic labels) or for trajectory estimation (i.e., without reconstructing a 3D mesh).

712
3D Reconstruction through Fusion of Cross-View Images
2021-06-27
3D recovery from multi-stereo and stereo images, as an important application of the image-based perspective geometry, serves many applications in computer vision, remote sensing and Geomatics. In this chapter, the authors utilize the imaging geometry and present approaches that perform 3D reconstruction from cross-view images that are drastically different in their viewpoints. We introduce our framework that takes ground-view images and satellite images for full 3D recovery, which includes necessary methods in satellite and ground-based point cloud generation from images, 3D data co-registration, fusion and mesh generation. We demonstrate our proposed framework on a dataset consisting of twelve satellite images and 150k video frames acquired through a vehicle-mounted Go-pro camera and demonstrate the reconstruction results. We have also compared our results with results generated from an intuitive processing pipeline that involves typical geo-registration and meshing methods.

713
Indoor Panorama Planar 3D Reconstruction via Divide and Conquer
2021-06-27
Indoor panorama typically consists of human-made structures parallel or perpendicular to gravity. We leverage this phenomenon to approximate the scene in a 360-degree image with (H)orizontal-planes and (V)ertical-planes. To this end, we propose an effective divide-and-conquer strategy that divides pixels based on their plane orientation estimation; then, the succeeding instance segmentation module conquers the task of planes clustering more easily in each plane orientation group. Besides, parameters of V-planes depend on camera yaw rotation, but translation-invariant CNNs are less aware of the yaw change. We thus propose a yaw-invariant V-planar reparameterization for CNNs to learn. We create a benchmark for indoor panorama planar reconstruction by extending existing 360 depth datasets with ground truth H\&V-planes (referred to as PanoH&V dataset) and adopt state-of-the-art planar reconstruction methods to predict H\&V-planes as our baselines. Our method outperforms the baselines by a large margin on the proposed dataset.

714
Automatic 2D-3D Registration without Contrast Agent during Neurovascular Interventions
2021-06-08
Fusing live fluoroscopy images with a 3D rotational reconstruction of the vasculature allows to navigate endovascular devices in minimally invasive neuro-vascular treatment, while reducing the usage of harmful iodine contrast medium. The alignment of the fluoroscopy images and the 3D reconstruction is initialized using the sensor information of the X-ray C-arm geometry. Patient motion is then corrected by an image-based registration algorithm, based on a gradient difference similarity measure using digital reconstructed radiographs of the 3D reconstruction. This algorithm does not require the vessels in the fluoroscopy image to be filled with iodine contrast agent, but rather relies on gradients in the image (bone structures, sinuses) as landmark features. This paper investigates the accuracy, robustness and computation time aspects of the image-based registration algorithm. Using phantom experiments 97% of the registration attempts passed the success criterion of a residual registration error of less than 1 mm translation and 3{\deg} rotation. The paper establishes a new method for validation of 2D-3D registration without requiring changes to the clinical workflow, such as attaching fiducial markers. As a consequence, this method can be retrospectively applied to pre-existing clinical data. For clinical data experiments, 87% of the registration attempts passed the criterion of a residual translational error of < 1 mm, and 84% possessed a rotational error of < 3{\deg}.

715
Deep Learning for Multi-View Stereo via Plane Sweep: A Survey
2021-06-18
3D reconstruction has lately attracted increasing attention due to its wide application in many areas, such as autonomous driving, robotics and virtual reality. As a dominant technique in artificial intelligence, deep learning has been successfully adopted to solve various computer vision problems. However, deep learning for 3D reconstruction is still at its infancy due to its unique challenges and varying pipelines. To stimulate future research, this paper presents a review of recent progress in deep learning methods for Multi-view Stereo (MVS), which is considered as a crucial task of image-based 3D reconstruction. It also presents comparative results on several publicly available datasets, with insightful observations and inspiring future research directions.

716
S3: Learnable Sparse Signal Superdensity for Guided Depth Estimation
2021-06-19
    Dense depth estimation plays a key role in multiple applications such as robotics, 3D reconstruction, and augmented reality. While sparse signal, e.g., LiDAR and Radar, has been leveraged as guidance for enhancing dense depth estimation, the improvement is limited due to its low density and imbalanced distribution. To maximize the utility from the sparse source, we propose Sparse Signal Superdensity (S3) technique, which expands the depth value from sparse cues while estimating the confidence of expanded region. The proposed S3 can be applied to various guided depth estimation approaches and trained end-to-end at different stages, including input, cost volume and output. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness, robustness, and flexibility of the S3 technique on LiDAR and Radar signal.    

717
3D Video Stabilization With Depth Estimation by CNN-Based Optimization
2021-06-19
    Video stabilization is an essential component of visual quality enhancement. Early methods rely on feature tracking to recover either 2D or 3D frame motion, which suffer from the robustness of local feature extraction and tracking in shaky videos. Recently, learning-based methods seek to find frame transformations with high-level information via deep neural networks to overcome the robustness issue of feature tracking. Nevertheless, to our best knowledge, no learning-based methods leverage 3D cues for the transformation inference yet; hence they would lead to artifacts on complex scene-depth scenarios. In this paper, we propose Deep3D Stabilizer, a novel 3D depth-based learning method for video stabilization. We take advantage of the recent self-supervised framework on jointly learning depth and camera ego-motion estimation on raw videos. Our approach requires no data for pre-training but stabilizes the input video via 3D reconstruction directly. The rectification stage incorporates the 3D scene depth and camera motion to smooth the camera trajectory and synthesize the stabilized video. Unlike most one-size-fits-all learning-based methods, our smoothing algorithm allows users to manipulate the stability of a video efficiently. Experimental results on challenging benchmarks show that the proposed solution consistently outperforms the state-of-the-art methods on almost all motion categories.    

718
Learning 3D Shape Feature for Texture-Insensitive Person Re-Identification
2021-06-19
    It is well acknowledged that person re-identification (person ReID) highly relies on visual texture information like clothing. Despite significant progress has been made in recent years, texture-confusing situations like clothing changing and persons wearing the same clothes receive little attention from most existing ReID methods. In this paper, rather than relying on texture based information, we propose to improve the robustness of person ReID against clothing texture by exploiting the information of a person's 3D shape. Existing shape learning schemas for person ReID either ignore the 3D information of a person, or require extra physical devices to collect 3D source data. Differently, we propose a novel ReID learning framework that directly extracts a texture-insensitive 3D shape embedding from a 2D image by adding 3D body reconstruction as an auxiliary task and regularization, called 3D Shape Learning (3DSL). The 3D reconstruction based regularization forces the ReID model to decouple the 3D shape information from the visual texture, and acquire discriminative 3D shape ReID features. To solve the problem of lacking 3D ground truth, we design an adversarial self-supervised projection (ASSP) model, performing 3D reconstruction without ground truth. Extensive experiments on common ReID datasets and texture-confusing datasets validate the effectiveness of our model.    

719
Self-Supervised 3D Mesh Reconstruction From Single Images
2021-06-19
    Recent single-view 3D reconstruction methods reconstruct object's shape and texture from a single image with only 2D image-level annotation. However, without explicit 3D attribute-level supervision, it is still difficult to achieve satisfying reconstruction accuracy. In this paper, we propose a Self-supervised Mesh Reconstruction (SMR) approach to enhance 3D mesh attribute learning process. Our approach is motivated by observations that (1) 3D attributes from interpolation and prediction should be consistent, and (2) feature representation of landmarks from all images should be consistent. By only requiring silhouette mask annotation, our SMR can be trained in an end-to-end manner and generalizes to reconstruct natural objects of birds, cows, motorbikes, etc. Experiments demonstrate that our approach improves both 2D supervised and unsupervised 3D mesh reconstruction on multiple datasets. We also show that our model can be adapted to other image synthesis tasks, e.g., novel view generation, shape transfer, and texture transfer, with promising results. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/Jia-Research-Lab.    

720
Residential Floor Plan Recognition and Reconstruction
2021-06-19
    Recognition and reconstruction of residential floor plan drawings are important and challenging in design, decoration, and architectural remodeling fields. An automatic framework is provided that accurately recognizes the structure, type, and size of the room, and outputs vectorized 3D reconstruction results. Deep segmentation and detection neural networks are utilized to extract room structural information. Key points detection network and cluster analysis are utilized to calculate scales of rooms. The vectorization of room information is processed through an iterative optimization-based method. The system significantly increases accuracy and generalization ability, compared with existing methods. It outperforms other systems in floor plan segmentation and vectorization process, especially inclined wall detection.    

721
D2IM-Net: Learning Detail Disentangled Implicit Fields From Single Images
2021-06-19
    We present the first single-view 3D reconstruction network aimed at recovering geometric details from an input image which encompass both topological shape structures and surface features. Our key idea is to train the network to learn a detail disentangled reconstruction consisting of two functions, one implicit field representing the coarse 3D shape and the other capturing the details. Given an input image, our network, coined D^2IM_Net, encodes it into global and local features which are respectively fed into two decoders. The base decoder uses the global features to reconstruct a coarse implicit field, while the detail decoder reconstructs, from the local features, two displacement maps, defined over the front and back sides of the captured object. The final 3D reconstruction is a fusion between the base shape and the displacement maps, with three losses enforcing the recovery of coarse shape, overall structure, and surface details via a novel Laplacian term.    

722
Extraction of Key-frames of Endoscopic Videos by using Depth Information
2021-06-30
A deep learning-based monocular depth estimation (MDE) technique is proposed for selection of most informative frames (key frames) of an endoscopic video. In most of the cases, ground truth depth maps of polyps are not readily available and that is why the transfer learning approach is adopted in our method. An endoscopic modalities generally capture thousands of frames. In this scenario, it is quite important to discard low-quality and clinically irrelevant frames of an endoscopic video while the most informative frames should be retained for clinical diagnosis. In this view, a key-frame selection strategy is proposed by utilizing the depth information of polyps. In our method, image moment, edge magnitude, and key-points are considered for adaptively selecting the key frames. One important application of our proposed method could be the 3D reconstruction of polyps with the help of extracted key frames. Also, polyps are localized with the help of extracted depth maps.

723
Ray-ONet: Efficient 3D Reconstruction From A Single RGB Image
2021-07-05
We propose Ray-ONet to reconstruct detailed 3D models from monocular images efficiently. By predicting a series of occupancy probabilities along a ray that is back-projected from a pixel in the camera coordinate, our method Ray-ONet improves the reconstruction accuracy in comparison with Occupancy Networks (ONet), while reducing the network inference complexity to O($N^2$). As a result, Ray-ONet achieves state-of-the-art performance on the ShapeNet benchmark with more than 20$\times$ speed-up at $128^3$ resolution and maintains a similar memory footprint during inference.

724
TransformerFusion: Monocular RGB Scene Reconstruction using Transformers
2021-07-05
We introduce TransformerFusion, a transformer-based 3D scene reconstruction approach. From an input monocular RGB video, the video frames are processed by a transformer network that fuses the observations into a volumetric feature grid representing the scene; this feature grid is then decoded into an implicit 3D scene representation. Key to our approach is the transformer architecture that enables the network to learn to attend to the most relevant image frames for each 3D location in the scene, supervised only by the scene reconstruction task. Features are fused in a coarse-to-fine fashion, storing fine-level features only where needed, requiring lower memory storage and enabling fusion at interactive rates. The feature grid is then decoded to a higher-resolution scene reconstruction, using an MLP-based surface occupancy prediction from interpolated coarse-to-fine 3D features. Our approach results in an accurate surface reconstruction, outperforming state-of-the-art multi-view stereo depth estimation methods, fully-convolutional 3D reconstruction approaches, and approaches using LSTM- or GRU-based recurrent networks for video sequence fusion.

725
Video-Based Camera Localization Using Anchor View Detection and Recursive 3D Reconstruction
2021-07-07
In this paper we introduce a new camera localization strategy designed for image sequences captured in challenging industrial situations such as industrial parts inspection. To deal with peculiar appearances that hurt standard 3D reconstruction pipeline, we exploit pre-knowledge of the scene by selecting key frames in the sequence (called as anchors) which are roughly connected to a certain location. Our method then seek the location of each frame in time-order, while recursively updating an augmented 3D model which can provide current camera location and surrounding 3D structure. In an experiment on a practical industrial situation, our method can localize over 99% frames in the input sequence, whereas standard localization methods fail to reconstruct a complete camera trajectory.

726
Visual Odometry with an Event Camera Using Continuous Ray Warping and Volumetric Contrast Maximization
2021-07-07
We present a new solution to tracking and mapping with an event camera. The motion of the camera contains both rotation and translation, and the displacements happen in an arbitrarily structured environment. As a result, the image matching may no longer be represented by a low-dimensional homographic warping, thus complicating an application of the commonly used Image of Warped Events (IWE). We introduce a new solution to this problem by performing contrast maximization in 3D. The 3D location of the rays cast for each event is smoothly varied as a function of a continuous-time motion parametrization, and the optimal parameters are found by maximizing the contrast in a volumetric ray density field. Our method thus performs joint optimization over motion and structure. The practical validity of our approach is supported by an application to AGV motion estimation and 3D reconstruction with a single vehicle-mounted event camera. The method approaches the performance obtained with regular cameras, and eventually outperforms in challenging visual conditions.

727
Capturing, Reconstructing, and Simulating: the UrbanScene3D Dataset
2021-07-09
We present UrbanScene3D, a large-scale data platform for research of urban scene perception and reconstruction. UrbanScene3D contains over 128k high-resolution images covering 16 scenes including large-scale real urban regions and synthetic cities with 136 km^2 area in total. The dataset also contains high-precision LiDAR scans and hundreds of image sets with different observation patterns, which provide a comprehensive benchmark to design and evaluate aerial path planning and 3D reconstruction algorithms. In addition, the dataset, which is built on Unreal Engine and Airsim simulator together with the manually annotated unique instance label for each building in the dataset, enables the generation of all kinds of data, e.g., 2D depth maps, 2D/3D bounding boxes, and 3D point cloud/mesh segmentations, etc. The simulator with physical engine and lighting system not only produce variety of data but also enable users to simulate cars or drones in the proposed urban environment for future research.

728
Self-Supervised Generative Adversarial Network for Depth Estimation in Laparoscopic Images
2021-07-09
Dense depth estimation and 3D reconstruction of a surgical scene are crucial steps in computer assisted surgery. Recent work has shown that depth estimation from a stereo images pair could be solved with convolutional neural networks. However, most recent depth estimation models were trained on datasets with per-pixel ground truth. Such data is especially rare for laparoscopic imaging, making it hard to apply supervised depth estimation to real surgical applications. To overcome this limitation, we propose SADepth, a new self-supervised depth estimation method based on Generative Adversarial Networks. It consists of an encoder-decoder generator and a discriminator to incorporate geometry constraints during training. Multi-scale outputs from the generator help to solve the local minima caused by the photometric reprojection loss, while the adversarial learning improves the framework generation quality. Extensive experiments on two public datasets show that SADepth outperforms recent state-of-the-art unsupervised methods by a large margin, and reduces the gap between supervised and unsupervised depth estimation in laparoscopic images.

729
Cumulative Assessment for Urban 3D Modeling
2021-07-09
Urban 3D modeling from satellite images requires accurate semantic segmentation to delineate urban features, multiple view stereo for 3D reconstruction of surface heights, and 3D model fitting to produce compact models with accurate surface slopes. In this work, we present a cumulative assessment metric that succinctly captures error contributions from each of these components. We demonstrate our approach by providing challenging public datasets and extending two open source projects to provide an end-to-end 3D modeling baseline solution to stimulate further research and evaluation with a public leaderboard.

730
CodeMapping: Real-Time Dense Mapping for Sparse SLAM using Compact Scene Representations
2021-07-19
We propose a novel dense mapping framework for sparse visual SLAM systems which leverages a compact scene representation. State-of-the-art sparse visual SLAM systems provide accurate and reliable estimates of the camera trajectory and locations of landmarks. While these sparse maps are useful for localization, they cannot be used for other tasks such as obstacle avoidance or scene understanding. In this paper we propose a dense mapping framework to complement sparse visual SLAM systems which takes as input the camera poses, keyframes and sparse points produced by the SLAM system and predicts a dense depth image for every keyframe. We build on CodeSLAM and use a variational autoencoder (VAE) which is conditioned on intensity, sparse depth and reprojection error images from sparse SLAM to predict an uncertainty-aware dense depth map. The use of a VAE then enables us to refine the dense depth images through multi-view optimization which improves the consistency of overlapping frames. Our mapper runs in a separate thread in parallel to the SLAM system in a loosely coupled manner. This flexible design allows for integration with arbitrary metric sparse SLAM systems without delaying the main SLAM process. Our dense mapper can be used not only for local mapping but also globally consistent dense 3D reconstruction through TSDF fusion. We demonstrate our system running with ORB-SLAM3 and show accurate dense depth estimation which could enable applications such as robotics and augmented reality.

731
Active 3D Shape Reconstruction from Vision and Touch
2021-07-20
Humans build 3D understandings of the world through active object exploration, using jointly their senses of vision and touch. However, in 3D shape reconstruction, most recent progress has relied on static datasets of limited sensory data such as RGB images, depth maps or haptic readings, leaving the active exploration of the shape largely unexplored. Inactive touch sensing for 3D reconstruction, the goal is to actively select the tactile readings that maximize the improvement in shape reconstruction accuracy. However, the development of deep learning-based active touch models is largely limited by the lack of frameworks for shape exploration. In this paper, we focus on this problem and introduce a system composed of: 1) a haptic simulator leveraging high spatial resolution vision-based tactile sensors for active touching of 3D objects; 2)a mesh-based 3D shape reconstruction model that relies on tactile or visuotactile signals; and 3) a set of data-driven solutions with either tactile or visuotactile priors to guide the shape exploration. Our framework enables the development of the first fully data-driven solutions to active touch on top of learned models for object understanding. Our experiments show the benefits of such solutions in the task of 3D shape understanding where our models consistently outperform natural baselines. We provide our framework as a tool to foster future research in this direction.

732
Fabrication-Aware Reverse Engineering for Carpentry
2021-07-21
We propose a novel method to generate fabrication blueprints from images of carpentered items. While 3D reconstruction from images is a well-studied problem, typical approaches produce representations that are ill-suited for computer-aided design and fabrication applications. Our key insight is that fabrication processes define and constrain the design space for carpentered objects, and can be leveraged to develop novel reconstruction methods. Our method makes use of domain-specific constraints to recover not just valid geometry, but a semantically valid assembly of parts, using a combination of image-based and geometric optimization techniques. We demonstrate our method on a variety of wooden objects and furniture, and show that we can automatically obtain designs that are both easy to edit and accurate recreations of the ground truth. We further illustrate how our method can be used to fabricate a physical replica of the captured object as well as a customized version, which can be produced by directly editing the reconstructed model in CAD software.

733
Fristograms: Revealing and Exploiting Light Field Internals
2021-07-22
In recent years, light field (LF) capture and processing has become an integral part of media production. The richness of information available in LFs has enabled novel applications like post-capture depth-of-field editing, 3D reconstruction, segmentation and matting, saliency detection, object detection and recognition, and mixed reality. The efficacy of such applications depends on certain underlying requirements, which are often ignored. For example, some operations such as noise-reduction, or hyperfan-filtering are only possible if a scene point Lambertian radiator. Some other operations such as the removal of obstacles or looking behind objects are only possible if there is at least one ray capturing the required scene point. Consequently, the ray distribution representing a certain scene point is an important characteristic for evaluating processing possibilities. The primary idea in this paper is to establish a relation between the capturing setup and the rays of the LF. To this end, we discretize the view frustum. Traditionally, a uniform discretization of the view frustum results in voxels that represents a single sample on a regularly spaced, 3-D grid. Instead, we use frustum-shaped voxels (froxels), by using depth and capturing-setup dependent discretization of the view frustum. Based on such discretization, we count the number of rays mapping to the same pixel on the capturing device(s). By means of this count, we propose histograms of ray-counts over the froxels (fristograms). Fristograms can be used as a tool to analyze and reveal interesting aspects of the underlying LF, like the number of rays originating from a scene point and the color distribution of these rays. As an example, we show its ability by significantly reducing the number of rays which enables noise reduction while maintaining the realistic rendering of non-Lambertian or partially occluded regions.

734
Pose Estimation and 3D Reconstruction of Vehicles from Stereo-Images Using a Subcategory-Aware Shape Prior
2021-07-22
The 3D reconstruction of objects is a prerequisite for many highly relevant applications of computer vision such as mobile robotics or autonomous driving. To deal with the inverse problem of reconstructing 3D objects from their 2D projections, a common strategy is to incorporate prior object knowledge into the reconstruction approach by establishing a 3D model and aligning it to the 2D image plane. However, current approaches are limited due to inadequate shape priors and the insufficiency of the derived image observations for a reliable alignment with the 3D model. The goal of this paper is to show how 3D object reconstruction can profit from a more sophisticated shape prior and from a combined incorporation of different observation types inferred from the images. We introduce a subcategory-aware deformable vehicle model that makes use of a prediction of the vehicle type for a more appropriate regularisation of the vehicle shape. A multi-branch CNN is presented to derive predictions of the vehicle type and orientation. This information is also introduced as prior information for model fitting. Furthermore, the CNN extracts vehicle keypoints and wireframes, which are well-suited for model-to-image association and model fitting. The task of pose estimation and reconstruction is addressed by a versatile probabilistic model. Extensive experiments are conducted using two challenging real-world data sets on both of which the benefit of the developed shape prior can be shown. A comparison to state-of-the-art methods for vehicle pose estimation shows that the proposed approach performs on par or better, confirming the suitability of the developed shape prior and probabilistic model for vehicle reconstruction.

735
H3D-Net: Few-Shot High-Fidelity 3D Head Reconstruction
2021-07-26
Recent learning approaches that implicitly represent surface geometry using coordinate-based neural representations have shown impressive results in the problem of multi-view 3D reconstruction. The effectiveness of these techniques is, however, subject to the availability of a large number (several tens) of input views of the scene, and computationally demanding optimizations. In this paper, we tackle these limitations for the specific problem of few-shot full 3D head reconstruction, by endowing coordinate-based representations with a probabilistic shape prior that enables faster convergence and better generalization when using few input images (down to three). First, we learn a shape model of 3D heads from thousands of incomplete raw scans using implicit representations. At test time, we jointly overfit two coordinate-based neural networks to the scene, one modeling the geometry and another estimating the surface radiance, using implicit differentiable rendering. We devise a two-stage optimization strategy in which the learned prior is used to initialize and constrain the geometry during an initial optimization phase. Then, the prior is unfrozen and fine-tuned to the scene. By doing this, we achieve high-fidelity head reconstructions, including hair and shoulders, and with a high level of detail that consistently outperforms both state-of-the-art 3D Morphable Models methods in the few-shot scenario, and non-parametric methods when large sets of views are available.

736
Learning-Based Depth and Pose Estimation for Monocular Endoscope with Loss Generalization
2021-07-28
Gastroendoscopy has been a clinical standard for diagnosing and treating conditions that affect a part of a patient's digestive system, such as the stomach. Despite the fact that gastroendoscopy has a lot of advantages for patients, there exist some challenges for practitioners, such as the lack of 3D perception, including the depth and the endoscope pose information. Such challenges make navigating the endoscope and localizing any found lesion in a digestive tract difficult. To tackle these problems, deep learning-based approaches have been proposed to provide monocular gastroendoscopy with additional yet important depth and pose information. In this paper, we propose a novel supervised approach to train depth and pose estimation networks using consecutive endoscopy images to assist the endoscope navigation in the stomach. We firstly generate real depth and pose training data using our previously proposed whole stomach 3D reconstruction pipeline to avoid poor generalization ability between computer-generated (CG) models and real data for the stomach. In addition, we propose a novel generalized photometric loss function to avoid the complicated process of finding proper weights for balancing the depth and the pose loss terms, which is required for existing direct depth and pose supervision approaches. We then experimentally show that our proposed generalized loss performs better than existing direct supervision losses.

737
Shadow Art Revisited: A Differentiable Rendering Based Approach
2021-07-30
While recent learning based methods have been observed to be superior for several vision-related applications, their potential in generating artistic effects has not been explored much. One such interesting application is Shadow Art - a unique form of sculptural art where 2D shadows cast by a 3D sculpture produce artistic effects. In this work, we revisit shadow art using differentiable rendering based optimization frameworks to obtain the 3D sculpture from a set of shadow (binary) images and their corresponding projection information. Specifically, we discuss shape optimization through voxel as well as mesh-based differentiable renderers. Our choice of using differentiable rendering for generating shadow art sculptures can be attributed to its ability to learn the underlying 3D geometry solely from image data, thus reducing the dependence on 3D ground truth. The qualitative and quantitative results demonstrate the potential of the proposed framework in generating complex 3D sculptures that go beyond those seen in contemporary art pieces using just a set of shadow images as input. Further, we demonstrate the generation of 3D sculptures to cast shadows of faces, animated movie characters, and applicability of the framework to sketch-based 3D reconstruction of underlying shapes.

738
Object Wake-up: 3D Object Rigging from a Single Image
2021-08-05
Given a single image of a general object such as a chair, could we also restore its articulated 3D shape similar to human modeling, so as to animate its plausible articulations and diverse motions? This is an interesting new question that may have numerous downstream augmented reality and virtual reality applications. Comparing with previous efforts on object manipulation, our work goes beyond 2D manipulation and rigid deformation, and involves articulated manipulation. To achieve this goal, we propose an automated approach to build such 3D generic objects from single images and embed articulated skeletons in them. Specifically, our framework starts by reconstructing the 3D object from an input image. Afterwards, to extract skeletons for generic 3D objects, we develop a novel skeleton prediction method with a multi-head structure for skeleton probability field estimation by utilizing the deep implicit functions. A dataset of generic 3D objects with ground-truth annotated skeletons is collected. Empirically our approach is demonstrated with satisfactory performance on public datasets as well as our in-house dataset; our results surpass those of the state-of-the-arts by a noticeable margin on both 3D reconstruction and skeleton prediction.

739
3DRIMR: 3D Reconstruction and Imaging via mmWave Radar based on Deep Learning
2021-08-05
mmWave radar has been shown as an effective sensing technique in low visibility, smoke, dusty, and dense fog environment. However tapping the potential of radar sensing to reconstruct 3D object shapes remains a great challenge, due to the characteristics of radar data such as sparsity, low resolution, specularity, high noise, and multi-path induced shadow reflections and artifacts. In this paper we propose 3D Reconstruction and Imaging via mmWave Radar (3DRIMR), a deep learning based architecture that reconstructs 3D shape of an object in dense detailed point cloud format, based on sparse raw mmWave radar intensity data. The architecture consists of two back-to-back conditional GAN deep neural networks: the first generator network generates 2D depth images based on raw radar intensity data, and the second generator network outputs 3D point clouds based on the results of the first generator. The architecture exploits both convolutional neural network's convolutional operation (that extracts local structure neighborhood information) and the efficiency and detailed geometry capture capability of point clouds (other than costly voxelization of 3D space or distance fields). Our experiments have demonstrated 3DRIMR's effectiveness in reconstructing 3D objects, and its performance improvement over standard techniques.

740
AA-RMVSNet: Adaptive Aggregation Recurrent Multi-view Stereo Network
2021-08-09
In this paper, we present a novel recurrent multi-view stereo network based on long short-term memory (LSTM) with adaptive aggregation, namely AA-RMVSNet. We firstly introduce an intra-view aggregation module to adaptively extract image features by using context-aware convolution and multi-scale aggregation, which efficiently improves the performance on challenging regions, such as thin objects and large low-textured surfaces. To overcome the difficulty of varying occlusion in complex scenes, we propose an inter-view cost volume aggregation module for adaptive pixel-wise view aggregation, which is able to preserve better-matched pairs among all views. The two proposed adaptive aggregation modules are lightweight, effective and complementary regarding improving the accuracy and completeness of 3D reconstruction. Instead of conventional 3D CNNs, we utilize a hybrid network with recurrent structure for cost volume regularization, which allows high-resolution reconstruction and finer hypothetical plane sweep. The proposed network is trained end-to-end and achieves excellent performance on various datasets. It ranks $1^{st}$ among all submissions on Tanks and Temples benchmark and achieves competitive results on DTU dataset, which exhibits strong generalizability and robustness. Implementation of our method is available at https://github.com/QT-Zhu/AA-RMVSNet.

741
A Real-Time Online Learning Framework for Joint 3D Reconstruction and Semantic Segmentation of Indoor Scenes
2021-08-11
This paper presents a real-time online vision framework to jointly recover an indoor scene's 3D structure and semantic label. Given noisy depth maps, a camera trajectory, and 2D semantic labels at train time, the proposed deep neural network based approach learns to fuse the depth over frames with suitable semantic labels in the scene space. Our approach exploits the joint volumetric representation of the depth and semantics in the scene feature space to solve this task. For a compelling online fusion of the semantic labels and geometry in real-time, we introduce an efficient vortex pooling block while dropping the use of routing network in online depth fusion to preserve high-frequency surface details. We show that the context information provided by the semantics of the scene helps the depth fusion network learn noise-resistant features. Not only that, it helps overcome the shortcomings of the current online depth fusion method in dealing with thin object structures, thickening artifacts, and false surfaces. Experimental evaluation on the Replica dataset shows that our approach can perform depth fusion at 37 and 10 frames per second with an average reconstruction F-score of 88% and 91%, respectively, depending on the depth map resolution. Moreover, our model shows an average IoU score of 0.515 on the ScanNet 3D semantic benchmark leaderboard.

742
DnD: Dense Depth Estimation in Crowded Dynamic Indoor Scenes
2021-08-12
We present a novel approach for estimating depth from a monocular camera as it moves through complex and crowded indoor environments, e.g., a department store or a metro station. Our approach predicts absolute scale depth maps over the entire scene consisting of a static background and multiple moving people, by training on dynamic scenes. Since it is difficult to collect dense depth maps from crowded indoor environments, we design our training framework without requiring depths produced from depth sensing devices. Our network leverages RGB images and sparse depth maps generated from traditional 3D reconstruction methods to estimate dense depth maps. We use two constraints to handle depth for non-rigidly moving people without tracking their motion explicitly. We demonstrate that our approach offers consistent improvements over recent depth estimation methods on the NAVERLABS dataset, which includes complex and crowded scenes.

743
UniFaceGAN: A Unified Framework for Temporally Consistent Facial Video Editing
2021-08-12
Recent research has witnessed advances in facial image editing tasks including face swapping and face reenactment. However, these methods are confined to dealing with one specific task at a time. In addition, for video facial editing, previous methods either simply apply transformations frame by frame or utilize multiple frames in a concatenated or iterative fashion, which leads to noticeable visual flickers. In this paper, we propose a unified temporally consistent facial video editing framework termed UniFaceGAN. Based on a 3D reconstruction model and a simple yet efficient dynamic training sample selection mechanism, our framework is designed to handle face swapping and face reenactment simultaneously. To enforce the temporal consistency, a novel 3D temporal loss constraint is introduced based on the barycentric coordinate interpolation. Besides, we propose a region-aware conditional normalization layer to replace the traditional AdaIN or SPADE to synthesize more context-harmonious results. Compared with the state-of-the-art facial image editing methods, our framework generates video portraits that are more photo-realistic and temporally smooth.

744
Towards unconstrained joint hand-object reconstruction from RGB videos
2021-08-16
Our work aims to obtain 3D reconstruction of hands and manipulated objects from monocular videos. Reconstructing hand-object manipulations holds a great potential for robotics and learning from human demonstrations. The supervised learning approach to this problem, however, requires 3D supervision and remains limited to constrained laboratory settings and simulators for which 3D ground truth is available. In this paper we first propose a learning-free fitting approach for hand-object reconstruction which can seamlessly handle two-hand object interactions. Our method relies on cues obtained with common methods for object detection, hand pose estimation and instance segmentation. We quantitatively evaluate our approach and show that it can be applied to datasets with varying levels of difficulty for which training data is unavailable.

745
Visual Enhanced 3D Point Cloud Reconstruction from A Single Image
2021-08-17
Solving the challenging problem of 3D object reconstruction from a single image appropriately gives existing technologies the ability to perform with a single monocular camera rather than requiring depth sensors. In recent years, thanks to the development of deep learning, 3D reconstruction of a single image has demonstrated impressive progress. Existing researches use Chamfer distance as a loss function to guide the training of the neural network. However, the Chamfer loss will give equal weights to all points inside the 3D point clouds. It tends to sacrifice fine-grained and thin structures to avoid incurring a high loss, which will lead to visually unsatisfactory results. This paper proposes a framework that can recover a detailed three-dimensional point cloud from a single image by focusing more on boundaries (edge and corner points). Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms existing techniques significantly, both qualitatively and quantitatively, and has fewer training parameters.

746
Pixel-Perfect Structure-from-Motion with Featuremetric Refinement
2021-08-18
Finding local features that are repeatable across multiple views is a cornerstone of sparse 3D reconstruction. The classical image matching paradigm detects keypoints per-image once and for all, which can yield poorly-localized features and propagate large errors to the final geometry. In this paper, we refine two key steps of structure-from-motion by a direct alignment of low-level image information from multiple views: we first adjust the initial keypoint locations prior to any geometric estimation, and subsequently refine points and camera poses as a post-processing. This refinement is robust to large detection noise and appearance changes, as it optimizes a featuremetric error based on dense features predicted by a neural network. This significantly improves the accuracy of camera poses and scene geometry for a wide range of keypoint detectors, challenging viewing conditions, and off-the-shelf deep features. Our system easily scales to large image collections, enabling pixel-perfect crowd-sourced localization at scale. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/cvg/pixel-perfect-sfm as an add-on to the popular SfM software COLMAP.

747
VolumeFusion: Deep Depth Fusion for 3D Scene Reconstruction
2021-08-19
To reconstruct a 3D scene from a set of calibrated views, traditional multi-view stereo techniques rely on two distinct stages: local depth maps computation and global depth maps fusion. Recent studies concentrate on deep neural architectures for depth estimation by using conventional depth fusion method or direct 3D reconstruction network by regressing Truncated Signed Distance Function (TSDF). In this paper, we advocate that replicating the traditional two stages framework with deep neural networks improves both the interpretability and the accuracy of the results. As mentioned, our network operates in two steps: 1) the local computation of the local depth maps with a deep MVS technique, and, 2) the depth maps and images' features fusion to build a single TSDF volume. In order to improve the matching performance between images acquired from very different viewpoints (e.g., large-baseline and rotations), we introduce a rotation-invariant 3D convolution kernel called PosedConv. The effectiveness of the proposed architecture is underlined via a large series of experiments conducted on the ScanNet dataset where our approach compares favorably against both traditional and deep learning techniques.

748
Learning Anchored Unsigned Distance Functions with Gradient Direction Alignment for Single-view Garment Reconstruction
2021-08-19
While single-view 3D reconstruction has made significant progress benefiting from deep shape representations in recent years, garment reconstruction is still not solved well due to open surfaces, diverse topologies and complex geometric details. In this paper, we propose a novel learnable Anchored Unsigned Distance Function (AnchorUDF) representation for 3D garment reconstruction from a single image. AnchorUDF represents 3D shapes by predicting unsigned distance fields (UDFs) to enable open garment surface modeling at arbitrary resolution. To capture diverse garment topologies, AnchorUDF not only computes pixel-aligned local image features of query points, but also leverages a set of anchor points located around the surface to enrich 3D position features for query points, which provides stronger 3D space context for the distance function. Furthermore, in order to obtain more accurate point projection direction at inference, we explicitly align the spatial gradient direction of AnchorUDF with the ground-truth direction to the surface during training. Extensive experiments on two public 3D garment datasets, i.e., MGN and Deep Fashion3D, demonstrate that AnchorUDF achieves the state-of-the-art performance on single-view garment reconstruction.

749
Black-Box Test-Time Shape REFINEment for Single View 3D Reconstruction
2021-08-23
Much recent progress has been made in reconstructing the 3D shape of an object from an image of it, i.e. single view 3D reconstruction. However, it has been suggested that current methods simply adopt a "nearest-neighbor" strategy, instead of genuinely understanding the shape behind the input image. In this paper, we rigorously show that for many state of the art methods, this issue manifests as (1) inconsistencies between coarse reconstructions and input images, and (2) inability to generalize across domains. We thus propose REFINE, a postprocessing mesh refinement step that can be easily integrated into the pipeline of any black-box method in the literature. At test time, REFINE optimizes a network per mesh instance, to encourage consistency between the mesh and the given object view. This, along with a novel combination of regularizing losses, reduces the domain gap and achieves state of the art performance. We believe that this novel paradigm is an important step towards robust, accurate reconstructions, remaining relevant as new reconstruction networks are introduced.

750
Burst Imaging for Light-Constrained Structure-From-Motion
2021-08-23
Images captured under extremely low light conditions are noise-limited, which can cause existing robotic vision algorithms to fail. In this paper we develop an image processing technique for aiding 3D reconstruction from images acquired in low light conditions. Our technique, based on burst photography, uses direct methods for image registration within bursts of short exposure time images to improve the robustness and accuracy of feature-based structure-from-motion (SfM). We demonstrate improved SfM performance in challenging light-constrained scenes, including quantitative evaluations that show improved feature performance and camera pose estimates. Additionally, we show that our method converges more frequently to correct reconstructions than the state-of-the-art. Our method is a significant step towards allowing robots to operate in low light conditions, with potential applications to robots operating in environments such as underground mines and night time operation.

751
SSR: Semi-supervised Soft Rasterizer for single-view 2D to 3D Reconstruction
2021-08-21
Recent work has made significant progress in learning object meshes with weak supervision. Soft Rasterization methods have achieved accurate 3D reconstruction from 2D images with viewpoint supervision only. In this work, we further reduce the labeling effort by allowing such 3D reconstruction methods leverage unlabeled images. In order to obtain the viewpoints for these unlabeled images, we propose to use a Siamese network that takes two images as input and outputs whether they correspond to the same viewpoint. During training, we minimize the cross entropy loss to maximize the probability of predicting whether a pair of images belong to the same viewpoint or not. To get the viewpoint of a new image, we compare it against different viewpoints obtained from the training samples and select the viewpoint with the highest matching probability. We finally label the unlabeled images with the most confident predicted viewpoint and train a deep network that has a differentiable rasterization layer. Our experiments show that even labeling only two objects yields significant improvement in IoU for ShapeNet when leveraging unlabeled examples. Code is available at https://github.com/IssamLaradji/SSR.

752
3D Reconstruction from public webcams
2021-08-21
We investigate the possibility of 3D scene reconstruction from two or more overlapping webcam streams. A large, and growing, number of webcams observe places of interest and are publicly accessible. The question naturally arises: can we make use of this free data source for 3D computer vision? It turns out that the task to reconstruct scene structure from webcam streams is very different from standard structure-from-motion (SfM), and conventional SfM pipelines fail. In the webcam setting there are very few views of the same scene, in most cases only the minimum of two. These viewpoints often have large baselines and/or scale differences, their overlap is rather limited, and besides unknown internal and external calibration also their temporal synchronisation is unknown. On the other hand, they record rather large fields of view continuously over long time spans, so that they regularly observe dynamic objects moving through the scene. We show how to leverage recent advances in several areas of computer vision to adapt SfM reconstruction to this particular scenario and reconstruct the unknown camera poses, the 3D scene structure, and the 3D trajectories of dynamic objects.

753
A Multiple-View Geometric Model for Specularity Prediction on General Curved Surfaces
2021-08-20
Specularity prediction is essential to many computer vision applications, giving important visual cues usable in Augmented Reality (AR), Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping (SLAM), 3D reconstruction and material modeling. However, it is a challenging task requiring numerous information from the scene including the camera pose, the geometry of the scene, the light sources and the material properties. Our previous work addressed this task by creating an explicit model using an ellipsoid whose projection fits the specularity image contours for a given camera pose. These ellipsoid-based approaches belong to a family of models called JOint-LIght MAterial Specularity (JOLIMAS), which we have gradually improved by removing assumptions on the scene geometry. However, our most recent approach is still limited to uniformly curved surfaces. This paper generalises JOLIMAS to any surface geometry while improving the quality of specularity prediction, without sacrificing computation performances. The proposed method establishes a link between surface curvature and specularity shape in order to lift the geometric assumptions made in previous work. Contrary to previous work, our new model is built from a physics-based local illumination model namely Torrance-Sparrow, providing an improved reconstruction. Specularity prediction using our new model is tested against the most recent JOLIMAS version on both synthetic and real sequences with objects of various general shapes. Our method outperforms previous approaches in specularity prediction, including the real-time setup, as shown in the supplementary videos.

754
Domain Adaptation for Real-World Single View 3D Reconstruction
2021-08-24
Deep learning-based object reconstruction algorithms have shown remarkable improvements over classical methods. However, supervised learning based methods perform poorly when the training data and the test data have different distributions. Indeed, most current works perform satisfactorily on the synthetic ShapeNet dataset, but dramatically fail in when presented with real world images. To address this issue, unsupervised domain adaptation can be used transfer knowledge from the labeled synthetic source domain and learn a classifier for the unlabeled real target domain. To tackle this challenge of single view 3D reconstruction in the real domain, we experiment with a variety of domain adaptation techniques inspired by the maximum mean discrepancy (MMD) loss, Deep CORAL, and the domain adversarial neural network (DANN). From these findings, we additionally propose a novel architecture which takes advantage of the fact that in this setting, target domain data is unsupervised with regards to the 3D model but supervised for class labels. We base our framework off a recent network called pix2vox. Results are performed with ShapeNet as the source domain and domains within the Object Dataset Domain Suite (ODDS) dataset as the target, which is a real world multiview, multidomain image dataset. The domains in ODDS vary in difficulty, allowing us to assess notions of domain gap size. Our results are the first in the multiview reconstruction literature using this dataset.

755
3DStyleNet: Creating 3D Shapes with Geometric and Texture Style Variations
2021-08-30
We propose a method to create plausible geometric and texture style variations of 3D objects in the quest to democratize 3D content creation. Given a pair of textured source and target objects, our method predicts a part-aware affine transformation field that naturally warps the source shape to imitate the overall geometric style of the target. In addition, the texture style of the target is transferred to the warped source object with the help of a multi-view differentiable renderer. Our model, 3DStyleNet, is composed of two sub-networks trained in two stages. First, the geometric style network is trained on a large set of untextured 3D shapes. Second, we jointly optimize our geometric style network and a pre-trained image style transfer network with losses defined over both the geometry and the rendering of the result. Given a small set of high-quality textured objects, our method can create many novel stylized shapes, resulting in effortless 3D content creation and style-ware data augmentation. We showcase our approach qualitatively on 3D content stylization, and provide user studies to validate the quality of our results. In addition, our method can serve as a valuable tool to create 3D data augmentations for computer vision tasks. Extensive quantitative analysis shows that 3DStyleNet outperforms alternative data augmentation techniques for the downstream task of single-image 3D reconstruction.

756
X2Teeth: 3D Teeth Reconstruction from a Single Panoramic Radiograph
2021-08-30
3D teeth reconstruction from X-ray is important for dental diagnosis and many clinical operations. However, no existing work has explored the reconstruction of teeth for a whole cavity from a single panoramic radiograph. Different from single object reconstruction from photos, this task has the unique challenge of constructing multiple objects at high resolutions. To conquer this task, we develop a novel ConvNet X2Teeth that decomposes the task into teeth localization and single-shape estimation. We also introduce a patch-based training strategy, such that X2Teeth can be end-to-end trained for optimal performance. Extensive experiments show that our method can successfully estimate the 3D structure of the cavity and reflect the details for each tooth. Moreover, X2Teeth achieves a reconstruction IoU of 0.681, which significantly outperforms the encoder-decoder method by $1.71X and the retrieval-based method by $1.52X. Our method can also be promising for other multi-anatomy 3D reconstruction tasks.

757
Common Objects in 3D: Large-Scale Learning and Evaluation of Real-life 3D Category Reconstruction
2021-09-01
Traditional approaches for learning 3D object categories have been predominantly trained and evaluated on synthetic datasets due to the unavailability of real 3D-annotated category-centric data. Our main goal is to facilitate advances in this field by collecting real-world data in a magnitude similar to the existing synthetic counterparts. The principal contribution of this work is thus a large-scale dataset, called Common Objects in 3D, with real multi-view images of object categories annotated with camera poses and ground truth 3D point clouds. The dataset contains a total of 1.5 million frames from nearly 19,000 videos capturing objects from 50 MS-COCO categories and, as such, it is significantly larger than alternatives both in terms of the number of categories and objects. We exploit this new dataset to conduct one of the first large-scale "in-the-wild" evaluations of several new-view-synthesis and category-centric 3D reconstruction methods. Finally, we contribute NerFormer - a novel neural rendering method that leverages the powerful Transformer to reconstruct an object given a small number of its views. The CO3D dataset is available at https://github.com/facebookresearch/co3d .

758
DensePose 3D: Lifting Canonical Surface Maps of Articulated Objects to the Third Dimension
2021-08-31
We tackle the problem of monocular 3D reconstruction of articulated objects like humans and animals. We contribute DensePose 3D, a method that can learn such reconstructions in a weakly supervised fashion from 2D image annotations only. This is in stark contrast with previous deformable reconstruction methods that use parametric models such as SMPL pre-trained on a large dataset of 3D object scans. Because it does not require 3D scans, DensePose 3D can be used for learning a wide range of articulated categories such as different animal species. The method learns, in an end-to-end fashion, a soft partition of a given category-specific 3D template mesh into rigid parts together with a monocular reconstruction network that predicts the part motions such that they reproject correctly onto 2D DensePose-like surface annotations of the object. The decomposition of the object into parts is regularized by expressing part assignments as a combination of the smooth eigenfunctions of the Laplace-Beltrami operator. We show significant improvements compared to state-of-the-art non-rigid structure-from-motion baselines on both synthetic and real data on categories of humans and animals.

759
Toward Realistic Single-View 3D Object Reconstruction with Unsupervised Learning from Multiple Images
2021-09-06
Recovering the 3D structure of an object from a single image is a challenging task due to its ill-posed nature. One approach is to utilize the plentiful photos of the same object category to learn a strong 3D shape prior for the object. This approach has successfully been demonstrated by a recent work of Wu et al. (2020), which obtained impressive 3D reconstruction networks with unsupervised learning. However, their algorithm is only applicable to symmetric objects. In this paper, we eliminate the symmetry requirement with a novel unsupervised algorithm that can learn a 3D reconstruction network from a multi-image dataset. Our algorithm is more general and covers the symmetry-required scenario as a special case. Besides, we employ a novel albedo loss that improves the reconstructed details and realisticity. Our method surpasses the previous work in both quality and robustness, as shown in experiments on datasets of various structures, including single-view, multi-view, image-collection, and video sets.

760
Light Field-Based Underwater 3D Reconstruction Via Angular Resampling
2021-09-05
Recovering 3D geometry of underwater scenes is challenging because of non-linear refraction of light at the water-air interface caused by the camera housing. We present a light field-based approach that leverages properties of angular samples for high-quality underwater 3D reconstruction from a single viewpoint. Specifically, we resample the light field image to angular patches. As underwater scenes exhibit weak view-dependent specularity, an angular patch tends to have uniform intensity when sampled at the correct depth. We thus impose this angular uniformity as a constraint for depth estimation. For efficient angular resampling, we design a fast approximation algorithm based on multivariate polynomial regression to approximate nonlinear refraction paths. We further develop a light field calibration algorithm that estimates the water-air interface geometry along with the camera parameters. Comprehensive experiments on synthetic and real data show our method produces state-of-the-art reconstruction on static and dynamic underwater scenes.

761
Single-Camera 3D Head Fitting for Mixed Reality Clinical Applications
2021-09-06
We address the problem of estimating the shape of a person's head, defined as the geometry of the complete head surface, from a video taken with a single moving camera, and determining the alignment of the fitted 3D head for all video frames, irrespective of the person's pose. 3D head reconstructions commonly tend to focus on perfecting the face reconstruction, leaving the scalp to a statistical approximation. Our goal is to reconstruct the head model of each person to enable future mixed reality applications. To do this, we recover a dense 3D reconstruction and camera information via structure-from-motion and multi-view stereo. These are then used in a new two-stage fitting process to recover the 3D head shape by iteratively fitting a 3D morphable model of the head with the dense reconstruction in canonical space and fitting it to each person's head, using both traditional facial landmarks and scalp features extracted from the head's segmentation mask. Our approach recovers consistent geometry for varying head shapes, from videos taken by different people, with different smartphones, and in a variety of environments from living rooms to outdoor spaces.

762
Reconstructing and grounding narrated instructional videos in 3D
2021-09-09
Narrated instructional videos often show and describe manipulations of similar objects, e.g., repairing a particular model of a car or laptop. In this work we aim to reconstruct such objects and to localize associated narrations in 3D. Contrary to the standard scenario of instance-level 3D reconstruction, where identical objects or scenes are present in all views, objects in different instructional videos may have large appearance variations given varying conditions and versions of the same product. Narrations may also have large variation in natural language expressions. We address these challenges by three contributions. First, we propose an approach for correspondence estimation combining learnt local features and dense flow. Second, we design a two-step divide and conquer reconstruction approach where the initial 3D reconstructions of individual videos are combined into a 3D alignment graph. Finally, we propose an unsupervised approach to ground natural language in obtained 3D reconstructions. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach for the domain of car maintenance. Given raw instructional videos and no manual supervision, our method successfully reconstructs engines of different car models and associates textual descriptions with corresponding objects in 3D.

763
Multiresolution Deep Implicit Functions for 3D Shape Representation
2021-09-12
We introduce Multiresolution Deep Implicit Functions (MDIF), a hierarchical representation that can recover fine geometry detail, while being able to perform global operations such as shape completion. Our model represents a complex 3D shape with a hierarchy of latent grids, which can be decoded into different levels of detail and also achieve better accuracy. For shape completion, we propose latent grid dropout to simulate partial data in the latent space and therefore defer the completing functionality to the decoder side. This along with our multires design significantly improves the shape completion quality under decoder-only latent optimization. To the best of our knowledge, MDIF is the first deep implicit function model that can at the same time (1) represent different levels of detail and allow progressive decoding; (2) support both encoder-decoder inference and decoder-only latent optimization, and fulfill multiple applications; (3) perform detailed decoder-only shape completion. Experiments demonstrate its superior performance against prior art in various 3D reconstruction tasks.

764
3D Annotation Of Arbitrary Objects In The Wild
2021-09-15
Recent years have produced a variety of learning based methods in the context of computer vision and robotics. Most of the recently proposed methods are based on deep learning, which require very large amounts of data compared to traditional methods. The performance of the deep learning methods are largely dependent on the data distribution they were trained on, and it is important to use data from the robot's actual operating domain during training. Therefore, it is not possible to rely on pre-built, generic datasets when deploying robots in real environments, creating a need for efficient data collection and annotation in the specific operating conditions the robots will operate in. The challenge is then: how do we reduce the cost of obtaining such datasets to a point where we can easily deploy our robots in new conditions, environments and to support new sensors? As an answer to this question, we propose a data annotation pipeline based on SLAM, 3D reconstruction, and 3D-to-2D geometry. The pipeline allows creating 3D and 2D bounding boxes, along with per-pixel annotations of arbitrary objects without needing accurate 3D models of the objects prior to data collection and annotation. Our results showcase almost 90% Intersection-over-Union (IoU) agreement on both semantic segmentation and 2D bounding box detection across a variety of objects and scenes, while speeding up the annotation process by several orders of magnitude compared to traditional manual annotation.

765
ObjectFolder: A Dataset of Objects with Implicit Visual, Auditory, and Tactile Representations
2021-09-16
Multisensory object-centric perception, reasoning, and interaction have been a key research topic in recent years. However, the progress in these directions is limited by the small set of objects available -- synthetic objects are not realistic enough and are mostly centered around geometry, while real object datasets such as YCB are often practically challenging and unstable to acquire due to international shipping, inventory, and financial cost. We present ObjectFolder, a dataset of 100 virtualized objects that addresses both challenges with two key innovations. First, ObjectFolder encodes the visual, auditory, and tactile sensory data for all objects, enabling a number of multisensory object recognition tasks, beyond existing datasets that focus purely on object geometry. Second, ObjectFolder employs a uniform, object-centric, and implicit representation for each object's visual textures, acoustic simulations, and tactile readings, making the dataset flexible to use and easy to share. We demonstrate the usefulness of our dataset as a testbed for multisensory perception and control by evaluating it on a variety of benchmark tasks, including instance recognition, cross-sensory retrieval, 3D reconstruction, and robotic grasping.

766
FreeStyleGAN: Free-view Editable Portrait Rendering with the Camera Manifold
2021-09-20
Current Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) produce photorealistic renderings of portrait images. Embedding real images into the latent space of such models enables high-level image editing. While recent methods provide considerable semantic control over the (re-)generated images, they can only generate a limited set of viewpoints and cannot explicitly control the camera. Such 3D camera control is required for 3D virtual and mixed reality applications. In our solution, we use a few images of a face to perform 3D reconstruction, and we introduce the notion of the GAN camera manifold, the key element allowing us to precisely define the range of images that the GAN can reproduce in a stable manner. We train a small face-specific neural implicit representation network to map a captured face to this manifold and complement it with a warping scheme to obtain free-viewpoint novel-view synthesis. We show how our approach - due to its precise camera control - enables the integration of a pre-trained StyleGAN into standard 3D rendering pipelines, allowing e.g., stereo rendering or consistent insertion of faces in synthetic 3D environments. Our solution proposes the first truly free-viewpoint rendering of realistic faces at interactive rates, using only a small number of casual photos as input, while simultaneously allowing semantic editing capabilities, such as facial expression or lighting changes.

767
Semi-supervised Dense Keypointsusing Unlabeled Multiview Images
2021-09-20
This paper presents a new end-to-end semi-supervised framework to learn a dense keypoint detector using unlabeled multiview images. A key challenge lies in finding the exact correspondences between the dense keypoints in multiple views since the inverse of keypoint mapping can be neither analytically derived nor differentiated. This limits applying existing multiview supervision approaches on sparse keypoint detection that rely on the exact correspondences. To address this challenge, we derive a new probabilistic epipolar constraint that encodes the two desired properties. (1) Soft correspondence: we define a matchability, which measures a likelihood of a point matching to the other image's corresponding point, thus relaxing the exact correspondences' requirement. (2) Geometric consistency: every point in the continuous correspondence fields must satisfy the multiview consistency collectively. We formulate a probabilistic epipolar constraint using a weighted average of epipolar errors through the matchability thereby generalizing the point-to-point geometric error to the field-to-field geometric error. This generalization facilitates learning a geometrically coherent dense keypoint detection model by utilizing a large number of unlabeled multiview images. Additionally, to prevent degenerative cases, we employ a distillation-based regularization by using a pretrained model. Finally, we design a new neural network architecture, made of twin networks, that effectively minimizes the probabilistic epipolar errors of all possible correspondences between two view images by building affinity matrices. Our method shows superior performance compared to existing methods, including non-differentiable bootstrapping in terms of keypoint accuracy, multiview consistency, and 3D reconstruction accuracy.

768
DeepPoint: A Deep Learning Model for 3D Reconstruction in Point Clouds via mmWave Radar
2021-09-19
Recent research has shown that mmWave radar sensing is effective for object detection in low visibility environments, which makes it an ideal technique in autonomous navigation systems such as autonomous vehicles. However, due to the characteristics of radar signals such as sparsity, low resolution, specularity, and high noise, it is still quite challenging to reconstruct 3D object shapes via mmWave radar sensing. Built on our recent proposed 3DRIMR (3D Reconstruction and Imaging via mmWave Radar), we introduce in this paper DeepPoint, a deep learning model that generates 3D objects in point cloud format that significantly outperforms the original 3DRIMR design. The model adopts a conditional Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) based deep neural network architecture. It takes as input the 2D depth images of an object generated by 3DRIMR's Stage 1, and outputs smooth and dense 3D point clouds of the object. The model consists of a novel generator network that utilizes a sequence of DeepPoint blocks or layers to extract essential features of the union of multiple rough and sparse input point clouds of an object when observed from various viewpoints, given that those input point clouds may contain many incorrect points due to the imperfect generation process of 3DRIMR's Stage 1. The design of DeepPoint adopts a deep structure to capture the global features of input point clouds, and it relies on an optimally chosen number of DeepPoint blocks and skip connections to achieve performance improvement over the original 3DRIMR design. Our experiments have demonstrated that this model significantly outperforms the original 3DRIMR and other standard techniques in reconstructing 3D objects.

769
Survey on Semantic Stereo Matching / Semantic Depth Estimation
2021-09-21
Stereo matching is one of the widely used techniques for inferring depth from stereo images owing to its robustness and speed. It has become one of the major topics of research since it finds its applications in autonomous driving, robotic navigation, 3D reconstruction, and many other fields. Finding pixel correspondences in non-textured, occluded and reflective areas is the major challenge in stereo matching. Recent developments have shown that semantic cues from image segmentation can be used to improve the results of stereo matching. Many deep neural network architectures have been proposed to leverage the advantages of semantic segmentation in stereo matching. This paper aims to give a comparison among the state of art networks both in terms of accuracy and in terms of speed which are of higher importance in real-time applications.

770
Learnable Triangulation for Deep Learning-based 3D Reconstruction of Objects of Arbitrary Topology from Single RGB Images
2021-09-24
We propose a novel deep reinforcement learning-based approach for 3D object reconstruction from monocular images. Prior works that use mesh representations are template based. Thus, they are limited to the reconstruction of objects that have the same topology as the template. Methods that use volumetric grids as intermediate representations are computationally expensive, which limits their application in real-time scenarios. In this paper, we propose a novel end-to-end method that reconstructs 3D objects of arbitrary topology from a monocular image. It is composed of of (1) a Vertex Generation Network (VGN), which predicts the initial 3D locations of the object's vertices from an input RGB image, (2) a differentiable triangulation layer, which learns in a non-supervised manner, using a novel reinforcement learning algorithm, the best triangulation of the object's vertices, and finally, (3) a hierarchical mesh refinement network that uses graph convolutions to refine the initial mesh. Our key contribution is the learnable triangulation process, which recovers in an unsupervised manner the topology of the input shape. Our experiments on ShapeNet and Pix3D benchmarks show that the proposed method outperforms the state-of-the-art in terms of visual quality, reconstruction accuracy, and computational time.

771
Adversarial Domain Feature Adaptation for Bronchoscopic Depth Estimation
2021-09-24
Depth estimation from monocular images is an important task in localization and 3D reconstruction pipelines for bronchoscopic navigation. Various supervised and self-supervised deep learning-based approaches have proven themselves on this task for natural images. However, the lack of labeled data and the bronchial tissue's feature-scarce texture make the utilization of these methods ineffective on bronchoscopic scenes. In this work, we propose an alternative domain-adaptive approach. Our novel two-step structure first trains a depth estimation network with labeled synthetic images in a supervised manner; then adopts an unsupervised adversarial domain feature adaptation scheme to improve the performance on real images. The results of our experiments show that the proposed method improves the network's performance on real images by a considerable margin and can be employed in 3D reconstruction pipelines.

772
PDC-Net+: Enhanced Probabilistic Dense Correspondence Network
2021-09-28
Establishing robust and accurate correspondences between a pair of images is a long-standing computer vision problem with numerous applications. While classically dominated by sparse methods, emerging dense approaches offer a compelling alternative paradigm that avoids the keypoint detection step. However, dense flow estimation is often inaccurate in the case of large displacements, occlusions, or homogeneous regions. In order to apply dense methods to real-world applications, such as pose estimation, image manipulation, or 3D reconstruction, it is therefore crucial to estimate the confidence of the predicted matches. We propose the Enhanced Probabilistic Dense Correspondence Network, PDC-Net+, capable of estimating accurate dense correspondences along with a reliable confidence map. We develop a flexible probabilistic approach that jointly learns the flow prediction and its uncertainty. In particular, we parametrize the predictive distribution as a constrained mixture model, ensuring better modelling of both accurate flow predictions and outliers. Moreover, we develop an architecture and an enhanced training strategy tailored for robust and generalizable uncertainty prediction in the context of self-supervised training. Our approach obtains state-of-the-art results on multiple challenging geometric matching and optical flow datasets. We further validate the usefulness of our probabilistic confidence estimation for the tasks of pose estimation, 3D reconstruction, image-based localization, and image retrieval. Code and models are available at https://github.com/PruneTruong/DenseMatching.

773
Identity-Expression Ambiguity in 3D Morphable Face Models
2021-09-29
3D Morphable Models are a class of generative models commonly used to model faces. They are typically applied to ill-posed problems such as 3D reconstruction from 2D data. Several ambiguities in this problem's image formation process have been studied explicitly. We demonstrate that non-orthogonality of the variation in identity and expression can cause identity-expression ambiguity in 3D Morphable Models, and that in practice expression and identity are far from orthogonal and can explain each other surprisingly well. Whilst previously reported ambiguities only arise in an inverse rendering setting, identity-expression ambiguity emerges in the 3D shape generation process itself. We demonstrate this effect with 3D shapes directly as well as through an inverse rendering task, and use two popular models built from high quality 3D scans as well as a model built from a large collection of 2D images and videos. We explore this issue's implications for inverse rendering and observe that it cannot be resolved by a purely statistical prior on identity and expression deformations.

774
Hierarchical Kinematic Probability Distributions for 3D Human Shape and Pose Estimation from Images in the Wild
2021-10-03
This paper addresses the problem of 3D human body shape and pose estimation from an RGB image. This is often an ill-posed problem, since multiple plausible 3D bodies may match the visual evidence present in the input - particularly when the subject is occluded. Thus, it is desirable to estimate a distribution over 3D body shape and pose conditioned on the input image instead of a single 3D reconstruction. We train a deep neural network to estimate a hierarchical matrix-Fisher distribution over relative 3D joint rotation matrices (i.e. body pose), which exploits the human body's kinematic tree structure, as well as a Gaussian distribution over SMPL body shape parameters. To further ensure that the predicted shape and pose distributions match the visual evidence in the input image, we implement a differentiable rejection sampler to impose a reprojection loss between ground-truth 2D joint coordinates and samples from the predicted distributions, projected onto the image plane. We show that our method is competitive with the state-of-the-art in terms of 3D shape and pose metrics on the SSP-3D and 3DPW datasets, while also yielding a structured probability distribution over 3D body shape and pose, with which we can meaningfully quantify prediction uncertainty and sample multiple plausible 3D reconstructions to explain a given input image. Code is available at https://github.com/akashsengupta1997/HierarchicalProbabilistic3DHuman .

775
Polarimetric Helmholtz Stereopsis
2021-01-01
    Helmholtz stereopsis (HS) exploits the reciprocity principle of light propagation (i.e., the Helmholtz reciprocity) for 3D reconstruction of surfaces with arbitrary reflectance. In this paper, we present the polarimetric Helmholtz stereopsis (polar-HS), which extends the classical HS by considering the polarization state of light in the reciprocal paths. With the additional phase information from polarization, polar-HS requires only one reciprocal image pair. We formulate new reciprocity and diffuse/specular polarimetric constraints to recover surface depths and normals using an optimization framework. Using a hardware prototype, we show that our approach produces high-quality 3D reconstruction for different types of surfaces, ranging from diffuse to highly specular.    

776
Uncertainty-Aware Human Mesh Recovery From Video by Learning Part-Based 3D Dynamics
2021-01-01
    Despite the recent success of 3D human reconstruction methods, recovering the accurate and smooth 3D human motion from video is still challenging. Designing a temporal model in the encoding stage is not sufficient enough to settle the trade-off problem between the per-frame accuracy and the motion smoothness. To address this problem, we approach some of the fundamental problems of 3D reconstruction tasks, simultaneously predicting 3D pose and 3D motion dynamics. First, we utilize the power of uncertainty to address the problem of multiple 3D configurations resulting in the same 2D projections. Second, we confirmed that dividing the body into local regions shows outstanding results for estimating 3D motion dynamics. In this paper, we propose (i) an encoder that makes two different estimations: a static feature that presents 2D pose feature as distribution and a dynamic feature that includes optical flow information and (ii) a decoder that divides the body into five different local regions to estimate the 3D motion dynamics of each region. We demonstrate how our method recovers the accurate and smooth motion and achieves the state-of-the-art results for both constrained and in-the-wild videos.    

777
3D Building Reconstruction From Monocular Remote Sensing Images
2021-01-01
    3D building reconstruction from monocular remote sensing imagery is an important research problem and an economic solution to large-scale city modeling, compared with reconstruction from LiDAR data and multi-view imagery. However, several challenges such as the partial invisibility of building footprints and facades, the serious shadow effect, and the extreme variance of building height in large-scale areas, have restricted the existing monocular image based building reconstruction studies to certain application scenes, i.e., modeling simple low-rise buildings from near-nadir images. In this study, we propose a novel 3D building reconstruction method for monocular remote sensing images, which tackles the above difficulties, thus providing an appealing solution for more complicated scenarios. We design a multi-task building reconstruction network, named MTBR-Net, to learn the geometric property of oblique images, the key components of a 3D building model and their relations via four semantic-related and three offset-related tasks. The network outputs are further integrated by a prior knowledge based 3D model optimization method to produce the the final 3D building models. Results on a public 3D reconstruction dataset and a novel released dataset demonstrate that our method improves the height estimation performance by over 40% and the segmentation F1-score by 2% - 4% compared with current state-of-the-art.    

778
EPP-MVSNet: Epipolar-Assembling Based Depth Prediction for Multi-View Stereo
2021-01-01
    In this paper, we proposed EPP-MVSNet, a novel deep learning network for 3D reconstruction from multi-view stereo (MVS). EPP-MVSNet can accurately aggregate features at high resolution to a limited cost volume with an optimal depth range, thus, leads to effective and efficient 3D construction. Distinct from existing works which measure feature cost at discrete positions which affects the 3D reconstruction accuracy, EPP-MVSNet introduces an epipolar assembling-based kernel that operates on adaptive intervals along epipolar lines for making full use of the image resolution. Further, we introduce an entropy-based refining strategy where the cost volume describes the space geometry with the little redundancy. Moreover, we design a light-weighted network with Pseudo-3D convolutions integrated to achieve high accuracy and efficiency. We have conducted extensive experiments on challenging datasets Tanks & Temples(TNT), ETH3D and DTU. As a result, we achieve promising results on all datasets and the highest F-Score on the online TNT intermediate benchmark. Code is available at https://gitee.com/mindspore/mindspore/tree/master/model_zoo/research/cv/eppmvsnet.    

779
Adaptive Surface Reconstruction With Multiscale Convolutional Kernels
2021-01-01
    We propose generalized convolutional kernels for 3D reconstruction with ConvNets from point clouds. Our method uses multiscale convolutional kernels that can be applied to adaptive grids as generated with octrees. In addition to standard kernels in which each element has a distinct spatial location relative to the center, our elements have a distinct relative location as well as a relative scale level. Making our kernels span multiple resolutions allows us to apply ConvNets to adaptive grids for large problem sizes where the input data is sparse but the entire domain needs to be processed. Our ConvNet architecture can predict the signed and unsigned distance fields for large data sets with millions of input points and is faster and more accurate than classic energy minimization or recent learning approaches. We demonstrate this in a zero-shot setting where we only train on synthetic data and evaluate on the Tanks and Temples dataset of real-world large-scale 3D scenes.    

780
In-the-Wild Single Camera 3D Reconstruction Through Moving Water Surfaces
2021-01-01
    We present a method for reconstructing the 3D shape of underwater environments from a single, stationary camera placed above the water. We propose a novel differentiable framework, which, to our knowledge, is the first single-camera solution that is capable of simultaneously retrieving the structure of dynamic water surfaces and static underwater scene geometry in the wild. This framework integrates ray casting of Snell's law at the refractive interface, multi-view triangulation and specially designed loss functions. Our method is calibration-free, and thus it is easy to collect data outdoors in uncontrolled environments. Experimental results show that our method is able to realize robust and quality reconstructions on a variety of scenes, both in a laboratory environment and in the wild, and even in a salt water environment. We believe the method is promising for applications in surveying and environmental monitoring.    

781
Just a Few Points Are All You Need for Multi-View Stereo: A Novel Semi-Supervised Learning Method for Multi-View Stereo
2021-01-01
    While learning-based multi-view stereo (MVS) methods have recently shown successful performances in quality and efficiency, limited MVS data hampers generalization to unseen environments. A simple solution is to generate various large-scale MVS datasets, but generating dense ground truth for 3D structure requires a huge amount of time and resources. On the other hand, if the reliance on dense ground truth is relaxed, MVS systems will generalize more smoothly to new environments. To this end, we first introduce a novel semi-supervised multi-view stereo framework called a Sparse Ground truth-based MVS Network (SGT-MVSNet) that can reliably reconstruct the 3D structures even with a few ground truth 3D points. Our strategy is to divide the accurate and erroneous regions and individually conquer them based on our observation that a probability map can separate these regions. We propose a self-supervision loss called the 3D Point Consistency Loss to enhance the 3D reconstruction performance, which forces the 3D points back-projected from the corresponding pixels by the predicted depth values to meet at the same 3D coordinates. Finally, we propagate these improved depth predictions toward edges and occlusions by the Coarse-to-fine Reliable Depth Propagation module. We generate the spare ground truth of the DTU dataset for evaluation and extensive experiments verify that our SGT-MVSNet outperforms the state-of-the-art MVS methods on the sparse ground truth setting. Moreover, our method shows comparable reconstruction results to the supervised MVS methods though we only used tens and hundreds of ground truth 3D points.    

782
Multi-View 3D Reconstruction With Transformers
2021-01-01
    Deep CNN-based methods have so far achieved the state of the art results in multi-view 3D object reconstruction. Despite the considerable progress, the two core modules of these methods - view feature extraction and multi-view fusion, are usually investigated separately, and the relations among multiple input views are rarely explored. Inspired by the recent great success in Transformer models, we reformulate the multi-view 3D reconstruction as a sequence-to-sequence prediction problem and propose a framework named 3D Volume Transformer. Unlike previous CNN-based methods using a separate design, we unify the feature extraction and view fusion in a single Transformer network. A natural advantage of our design lies in the exploration of view-to-view relationships using self-attention among multiple unordered inputs. On ShapeNet - a large-scale 3D reconstruction benchmark, our method achieves a new state-of-the-art accuracy in multi-view reconstruction with fewer parameters (70% less) than CNN-based methods. Experimental results also suggest the strong scaling capability of our method. Our code will be made publicly available.    

783
Gaussian Fusion: Accurate 3D Reconstruction via Geometry-Guided Displacement Interpolation
2021-01-01
    Reconstructing delicate geometric details with consumer RGB-D sensors is challenging due to sensor depth and poses uncertainties. To tackle this problem, we propose a unique geometry-guided fusion framework: 1) First, we characterize fusion correspondences with the geodesic curves derived from the mass transport problem, also known as the Monge-Kantorovich problem. Compared with the depth map back-projection methods, the geodesic curves reveal the geometric structures of the local surface. 2) Moving the points along the geodesic curves is the core of our fusion approach, guided by local geometric properties, i.e., Gaussian curvature and mean curvature. Compared with the state-of-the-art methods, our novel geometry-guided displacement interpolation fully utilizes the meaningful geometric features of the local surface. It makes the reconstruction accuracy and completeness improved. Finally, a significant number of experimental results on real object data verify the superior performance of the proposed method. Our technique achieves the most delicate geometric details on thin objects for which the original depth map back-projection fusion scheme suffers from severe artifacts (See Fig.1).    

784
3DeepCT: Learning Volumetric Scattering Tomography of Clouds
2021-01-01
    We present 3DeepCT, a deep neural network for computed tomography, which performs 3D reconstruction of scattering volumes from multi-view images. The architecture is dictated by the stationary nature of atmospheric cloud fields. The task of volumetric scattering tomography aims at recovering a volume from its 2D projections. This problem has been approached by diverse inverse methods based on signal processing and physics models. However, such techniques are typically iterative, exhibiting a high computational load and a long convergence time. We show that 3DeepCT outperforms physics-based inverse scattering methods, in accuracy, as well as offering orders of magnitude improvement in computational run-time. We further introduce a hybrid model that combines 3DeepCT and physics-based analysis. The resultant hybrid technique enjoys fast inference time and improved recovery performance.    

785
Topologically Consistent Multi-View Face Inference Using Volumetric Sampling
2021-10-06
High-fidelity face digitization solutions often combine multi-view stereo (MVS) techniques for 3D reconstruction and a non-rigid registration step to establish dense correspondence across identities and expressions. A common problem is the need for manual clean-up after the MVS step, as 3D scans are typically affected by noise and outliers and contain hairy surface regions that need to be cleaned up by artists. Furthermore, mesh registration tends to fail for extreme facial expressions. Most learning-based methods use an underlying 3D morphable model (3DMM) to ensure robustness, but this limits the output accuracy for extreme facial expressions. In addition, the global bottleneck of regression architectures cannot produce meshes that tightly fit the ground truth surfaces. We propose ToFu, Topologically consistent Face from multi-view, a geometry inference framework that can produce topologically consistent meshes across facial identities and expressions using a volumetric representation instead of an explicit underlying 3DMM. Our novel progressive mesh generation network embeds the topological structure of the face in a feature volume, sampled from geometry-aware local features. A coarse-to-fine architecture facilitates dense and accurate facial mesh predictions in a consistent mesh topology. ToFu further captures displacement maps for pore-level geometric details and facilitates high-quality rendering in the form of albedo and specular reflectance maps. These high-quality assets are readily usable by production studios for avatar creation, animation and physically-based skin rendering. We demonstrate state-of-the-art geometric and correspondence accuracy, while only taking 0.385 seconds to compute a mesh with 10K vertices, which is three orders of magnitude faster than traditional techniques. The code and the model are available for research purposes at https://tianyeli.github.io/tofu.

786
Echo-Reconstruction: Audio-Augmented 3D Scene Reconstruction
2021-10-05
Reflective and textureless surfaces such as windows, mirrors, and walls can be a challenge for object and scene reconstruction. These surfaces are often poorly reconstructed and filled with depth discontinuities and holes, making it difficult to cohesively reconstruct scenes that contain these planar discontinuities. We propose Echoreconstruction, an audio-visual method that uses the reflections of sound to aid in geometry and audio reconstruction for virtual conferencing, teleimmersion, and other AR/VR experience. The mobile phone prototype emits pulsed audio, while recording video for RGB-based 3D reconstruction and audio-visual classification. Reflected sound and images from the video are input into our audio (EchoCNN-A) and audio-visual (EchoCNN-AV) convolutional neural networks for surface and sound source detection, depth estimation, and material classification. The inferences from these classifications enhance scene 3D reconstructions containing open spaces and reflective surfaces by depth filtering, inpainting, and placement of unmixed sound sources in the scene. Our prototype, VR demo, and experimental results from real-world and virtual scenes with challenging surfaces and sound indicate high success rates on classification of material, depth estimation, and closed/open surfaces, leading to considerable visual and audio improvement in 3D scenes (see Figure 1).

787
3D-MOV: Audio-Visual LSTM Autoencoder for 3D Reconstruction of Multiple Objects from Video
2021-10-05
3D object reconstructions of transparent and concave structured objects, with inferred material properties, remains an open research problem for robot navigation in unstructured environments. In this paper, we propose a multimodal single- and multi-frame neural network for 3D reconstructions using audio-visual inputs. Our trained reconstruction LSTM autoencoder 3D-MOV accepts multiple inputs to account for a variety of surface types and views. Our neural network produces high-quality 3D reconstructions using voxel representation. Based on Intersection-over-Union (IoU), we evaluate against other baseline methods using synthetic audio-visual datasets ShapeNet and Sound20K with impact sounds and bounding box annotations. To the best of our knowledge, our single- and multi-frame model is the first audio-visual reconstruction neural network for 3D geometry and material representation.

788
TreeGCN-ED: Encoding Point Cloud using a Tree-Structured Graph Network
2021-10-07
Point cloud is one of the widely used techniques for representing and storing 3D geometric data. In the past several methods have been proposed for processing point clouds. Methods such as PointNet and FoldingNet have shown promising results for tasks like 3D shape classification and segmentation. This work proposes a tree-structured autoencoder framework to generate robust embeddings of point clouds by utilizing hierarchical information using graph convolution. We perform multiple experiments to assess the quality of embeddings generated by the proposed encoder architecture and visualize the t-SNE map to highlight its ability to distinguish between different object classes. We further demonstrate the applicability of the proposed framework in applications like: 3D point cloud completion and Single image-based 3D reconstruction.

789
Camera Calibration through Camera Projection Loss
2021-10-07
Camera calibration is a necessity in various tasks including 3D reconstruction, hand-eye coordination for a robotic interaction, autonomous driving, etc. In this work we propose a novel method to predict extrinsic (baseline, pitch, and translation), intrinsic (focal length and principal point offset) parameters using an image pair. Unlike existing methods, instead of designing an end-to-end solution, we proposed a new representation that incorporates camera model equations as a neural network in multi-task learning framework. We estimate the desired parameters via novel camera projection loss (CPL) that uses the camera model neural network to reconstruct the 3D points and uses the reconstruction loss to estimate the camera parameters. To the best of our knowledge, ours is the first method to jointly estimate both the intrinsic and extrinsic parameters via a multi-task learning methodology that combines analytical equations in learning framework for the estimation of camera parameters. We also proposed a novel dataset using CARLA Simulator. Empirically, we demonstrate that our proposed approach achieves better performance with respect to both deep learning-based and traditional methods on 8 out of 10 parameters evaluated using both synthetic and real data. Our code and generated dataset are available at https://github.com/thanif/Camera-Calibration-through-Camera-Projection-Loss.

790
Automatic annotation of visual deep neural networks
2021-10-08
Computer vision is widely used in the fields of driverless, face recognition and 3D reconstruction as a technology to help or replace human eye perception images or multidimensional data through computers. Nowadays, with the development and application of deep neural networks, the models of deep neural networks proposed for computer vision are becoming more and more abundant, and developers will use the already trained models on the way to solve problems, and need to consult the relevant documents to understand the use of the model. The class model, which creates the need to quickly and accurately find the relevant models that you need. The automatic annotation method of visual depth neural network proposed in this paper is based on natural language processing technology such as semantic analysis, which realizes automatic labeling of model application fields. In the three top international conferences on computer vision: ICCV, CVPR and ECCV, the average correct rate of application of the papers of 72 papers reached 90%, indicating the effectiveness of the automatic labeling system.

791
Geon3D: Exploiting 3D Shape Bias towards Building Robust Machine Vision
2021-09-29
Robustness research in machine vision faces a challenge. Many variants of ImageNet-scale robustness benchmarks have been proposed, only to reveal that current vision systems fail under distributional shifts. Although aiming for higher robustness accuracy on these benchmarks is important, we also observe that simply using larger models and larger training datasets may not lead to true robustness, demanding further innovation. To tackle the problem from a new perspective, we encourage closer collaboration between the robustness and 3D vision communities. This proposal is inspired by human vision, which is surprisingly robust to environ-mental variation, including both naturally occurring disturbances (e.g., fog, snow, occlusion) and artificial corruptions (e.g., adversarial examples). We hypothesize that such robustness, at least in part, arises from our ability to infer 3D geometry from 2D retinal projections---the ability to go from images to their underlying causes, including the 3D scene. In this work, we take a first step toward testing this hypothesis by viewing 3D reconstruction as a pretraining method for building more robust vision systems. We introduce a novel dataset called Geon3D, which is derived from objects that emphasize variation across shape features that the human visual system is thought to be particularly sensitive. This dataset enables, for the first time, a controlled setting where we can isolate the effect of 3D shape bias in robustifying neural networks, and informs new approaches for increasing robustness by exploiting 3D vision tasks.  Using Geon3D, we find that CNNs pretrained on 3D reconstruction are more resilient to viewpoint change, rotation, and shift than regular CNNs. Further, when combined with adversarial training, 3D reconstruction pretrained models improve adversarial and common corruption robustness over vanilla adversarially-trained models. We hope that our findings and dataset will encourage exploitation of synergies between the robustness researchers, 3D computer vision community, and computational perception researchers in cognitive science, paving a way for achieving human-like robustness under complex, real-world stimuli conditions.

792
ABO: Dataset and Benchmarks for Real-World 3D Object Understanding
2021-10-12
We introduce Amazon Berkeley Objects (ABO), a new large-scale dataset designed to help bridge the gap between real and virtual 3D worlds. ABO contains product catalog images, metadata, and artist-created 3D models with complex geometries and physically-based materials that correspond to real, household objects. We derive challenging benchmarks that exploit the unique properties of ABO and measure the current limits of the state-of-the-art on three open problems for real-world 3D object understanding: single-view 3D reconstruction, material estimation, and cross-domain multi-view object retrieval.

793
Neural Radiance Fields Approach to Deep Multi-View Photometric Stereo
2021-10-11
We present a modern solution to the multi-view photometric stereo problem (MVPS). Our work suitably exploits the image formation model in a MVPS experimental setup to recover the dense 3D reconstruction of an object from images. We procure the surface orientation using a photometric stereo (PS) image formation model and blend it with a multi-view neural radiance field representation to recover the object's surface geometry. Contrary to the previous multi-staged framework to MVPS, where the position, iso-depth contours, or orientation measurements are estimated independently and then fused later, our method is simple to implement and realize. Our method performs neural rendering of multi-view images while utilizing surface normals estimated by a deep photometric stereo network. We render the MVPS images by considering the object's surface normals for each 3D sample point along the viewing direction rather than explicitly using the density gradient in the volume space via 3D occupancy information. We optimize the proposed neural radiance field representation for the MVPS setup efficiently using a fully connected deep network to recover the 3D geometry of an object. Extensive evaluation on the DiLiGenT-MV benchmark dataset shows that our method performs better than the approaches that perform only PS or only multi-view stereo (MVS) and provides comparable results against the state-of-the-art multi-stage fusion methods.

794
Hyperspectral 3D Mapping of Underwater Environments
2021-10-13
Hyperspectral imaging has been increasingly used for underwater survey applications over the past years. As many hyperspectral cameras work as push-broom scanners, their use is usually limited to the creation of photo-mosaics based on a flat surface approximation and by interpolating the camera pose from dead-reckoning navigation. Yet, because of drift in the navigation and the mostly wrong flat surface assumption, the quality of the obtained photo-mosaics is often too low to support adequate analysis.In this paper we present an initial method for creating hyperspectral 3D reconstructions of underwater environments. By fusing the data gathered by a classical RGB camera, an inertial navigation system and a hyperspectral push-broom camera, we show that the proposed method creates highly accurate 3D reconstructions with hyperspectral textures. We propose to combine techniques from simultaneous localization and mapping, structure-from-motion and 3D reconstruction and advantageously use them to create 3D models with hyperspectral texture, allowing us to overcome the flat surface assumption and the classical limitation of dead-reckoning navigation.

795
NeRS: Neural Reflectance Surfaces for Sparse-view 3D Reconstruction in the Wild
2021-10-14
Recent history has seen a tremendous growth of work exploring implicit representations of geometry and radiance, popularized through Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF). Such works are fundamentally based on a (implicit) volumetric representation of occupancy, allowing them to model diverse scene structure including translucent objects and atmospheric obscurants. But because the vast majority of real-world scenes are composed of well-defined surfaces, we introduce a surface analog of such implicit models called Neural Reflectance Surfaces (NeRS). NeRS learns a neural shape representation of a closed surface that is diffeomorphic to a sphere, guaranteeing water-tight reconstructions. Even more importantly, surface parameterizations allow NeRS to learn (neural) bidirectional surface reflectance functions (BRDFs) that factorize view-dependent appearance into environmental illumination, diffuse color (albedo), and specular "shininess." Finally, rather than illustrating our results on synthetic scenes or controlled in-the-lab capture, we assemble a novel dataset of multi-view images from online marketplaces for selling goods. Such "in-the-wild" multi-view image sets pose a number of challenges, including a small number of views with unknown/rough camera estimates. We demonstrate that surface-based neural reconstructions enable learning from such data, outperforming volumetric neural rendering-based reconstructions. We hope that NeRS serves as a first step toward building scalable, high-quality libraries of real-world shape, materials, and illumination. The project page with code and video visualizations can be found at https://jasonyzhang.com/ners.

796
3D Reconstruction of Curvilinear Structures with Stereo Matching DeepConvolutional Neural Networks
2021-10-14
Curvilinear structures frequently appear in microscopy imaging as the object of interest. Crystallographic defects, i.edislocations, are one of the curvilinear structures that have been repeatedly investigated under transmission electronmicroscopy (TEM) and their 3D structural information is of great importance for understanding the properties ofmaterials. 3D information of dislocations is often obtained by tomography which is a cumbersome process since itis required to acquire many images with different tilt angles and similar imaging conditions. Although, alternativestereoscopy methods lower the number of required images to two, they still require human intervention and shape priorsfor accurate 3D estimation. We propose a fully automated pipeline for both detection and matching of curvilinearstructures in stereo pairs by utilizing deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) without making any prior assumptionon 3D shapes. In this work, we mainly focus on 3D reconstruction of dislocations from stereo pairs of TEM images.

797
NeuralBlox: Real-Time Neural Representation Fusion for Robust Volumetric Mapping
2021-10-18
We present a novel 3D mapping method leveraging the recent progress in neural implicit representation for 3D reconstruction. Most existing state-of-the-art neural implicit representation methods are limited to object-level reconstructions and can not incrementally perform updates given new data. In this work, we propose a fusion strategy and training pipeline to incrementally build and update neural implicit representations that enable the reconstruction of large scenes from sequential partial observations. By representing an arbitrarily sized scene as a grid of latent codes and performing updates directly in latent space, we show that incrementally built occupancy maps can be obtained in real-time even on a CPU. Compared to traditional approaches such as Truncated Signed Distance Fields (TSDFs), our map representation is significantly more robust in yielding a better scene completeness given noisy inputs. We demonstrate the performance of our approach in thorough experimental validation on real-world datasets with varying degrees of added pose noise.

798
3D-RETR: End-to-End Single and Multi-View 3D Reconstruction with Transformers
2021-10-17
3D reconstruction aims to reconstruct 3D objects from 2D views. Previous works for 3D reconstruction mainly focus on feature matching between views or using CNNs as backbones. Recently, Transformers have been shown effective in multiple applications of computer vision. However, whether or not Transformers can be used for 3D reconstruction is still unclear. In this paper, we fill this gap by proposing 3D-RETR, which is able to perform end-to-end 3D REconstruction with TRansformers. 3D-RETR first uses a pretrained Transformer to extract visual features from 2D input images. 3D-RETR then uses another Transformer Decoder to obtain the voxel features. A CNN Decoder then takes as input the voxel features to obtain the reconstructed objects. 3D-RETR is capable of 3D reconstruction from a single view or multiple views. Experimental results on two datasets show that 3DRETR reaches state-of-the-art performance on 3D reconstruction. Additional ablation study also demonstrates that 3D-DETR benefits from using Transformers.

799
Style Agnostic 3D Reconstruction via Adversarial Style Transfer
2021-10-20
Reconstructing the 3D geometry of an object from an image is a major challenge in computer vision. Recently introduced differentiable renderers can be leveraged to learn the 3D geometry of objects from 2D images, but those approaches require additional supervision to enable the renderer to produce an output that can be compared to the input image. This can be scene information or constraints such as object silhouettes, uniform backgrounds, material, texture, and lighting. In this paper, we propose an approach that enables a differentiable rendering-based learning of 3D objects from images with backgrounds without the need for silhouette supervision. Instead of trying to render an image close to the input, we propose an adversarial style-transfer and domain adaptation pipeline that allows to translate the input image domain to the rendered image domain. This allows us to directly compare between a translated image and the differentiable rendering of a 3D object reconstruction in order to train the 3D object reconstruction network. We show that the approach learns 3D geometry from images with backgrounds and provides a better performance than constrained methods for single-view 3D object reconstruction on this task.

800
AIR-Nets: An Attention-Based Framework for Locally Conditioned Implicit Representations
2021-10-22
This paper introduces Attentive Implicit Representation Networks (AIR-Nets), a simple, but highly effective architecture for 3D reconstruction from point clouds. Since representing 3D shapes in a local and modular fashion increases generalization and reconstruction quality, AIR-Nets encode an input point cloud into a set of local latent vectors anchored in 3D space, which locally describe the object's geometry, as well as a global latent description, enforcing global consistency. Our model is the first grid-free, encoder-based approach that locally describes an implicit function. The vector attention mechanism from [Zhao et al. 2020] serves as main point cloud processing module, and allows for permutation invariance and translation equivariance. When queried with a 3D coordinate, our decoder gathers information from the global and nearby local latent vectors in order to predict an occupancy value. Experiments on the ShapeNet dataset show that AIR-Nets significantly outperform previous state-of-the-art encoder-based, implicit shape learning methods and especially dominate in the sparse setting. Furthermore, our model generalizes well to the FAUST dataset in a zero-shot setting. Finally, since AIR-Nets use a sparse latent representation and follow a simple operating scheme, the model offers several exiting avenues for future work. Our code is available at https://github.com/SimonGiebenhain/AIR-Nets.

801
High Fidelity 3D Reconstructions with Limited Physical Views
2021-10-22
Multi-view triangulation is the gold standard for 3D reconstruction from 2D correspondences given known calibration and sufficient views. However in practice, expensive multi-view setups -- involving tens sometimes hundreds of cameras -- are required in order to obtain the high fidelity 3D reconstructions necessary for many modern applications. In this paper we present a novel approach that leverages recent advances in 2D-3D lifting using neural shape priors while also enforcing multi-view equivariance. We show how our method can achieve comparable fidelity to expensive calibrated multi-view rigs using a limited (2-3) number of uncalibrated camera views.

802
IVS3D: An Open Source Framework for Intelligent Video Sampling and Preprocessing to Facilitate 3D Reconstruction
2021-10-22
The creation of detailed 3D models is relevant for a wide range of applications such as navigation in three-dimensional space, construction planning or disaster assessment. However, the complex processing and long execution time for detailed 3D reconstructions require the original database to be reduced in order to obtain a result in reasonable time. In this paper we therefore present our framework iVS3D for intelligent pre-processing of image sequences. Our software is able to down sample entire videos to a specific frame rate, as well as to resize and crop the individual images. Furthermore, thanks to our modular architecture, it is easy to develop and integrate plugins with additional algorithms. We provide three plugins as baseline methods that enable an intelligent selection of suitable images and can enrich them with additional information. To filter out images affected by motion blur, we developed a plugin that detects these frames and also searches the spatial neighbourhood for suitable images as replacements. The second plugin uses optical flow to detect redundant images caused by a temporarily stationary camera. In our experiments, we show how this approach leads to a more balanced image sampling if the camera speed varies, and that excluding such redundant images leads to a time saving of 8.1\percent for our sequences. A third plugin makes it possible to exclude challenging image regions from the 3D reconstruction by performing semantic segmentation. As we think that the community can greatly benefit from such an approach, we will publish our framework and the developed plugins open source using the MIT licence to allow co-development and easy extension.

803
Robust Multi-view Registration of Point Sets with Laplacian Mixture Model
2021-10-26
Point set registration is an essential step in many computer vision applications, such as 3D reconstruction and SLAM. Although there exist many registration algorithms for different purposes, however, this topic is still challenging due to the increasing complexity of various real-world scenarios, such as heavy noise and outlier contamination. In this paper, we propose a novel probabilistic generative method to simultaneously align multiple point sets based on the heavy-tailed Laplacian distribution. The proposed method assumes each data point is generated by a Laplacian Mixture Model (LMM), where its centers are determined by the corresponding points in other point sets. Different from the previous Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM) based method, which minimizes the quadratic distance between points and centers of Gaussian probability density, LMM minimizes the sparsity-induced L1 distance, thereby it is more robust against noise and outliers. We adopt Expectation-Maximization (EM) framework to solve LMM parameters and rigid transformations. We approximate the L1 optimization as a linear programming problem by exponential mapping in Lie algebra, which can be effectively solved through the interior point method. To improve efficiency, we also solve the L1 optimization by Alternating Direction Multiplier Method (ADMM). We demonstrate the advantages of our method by comparing it with representative state-of-the-art approaches on benchmark challenging data sets, in terms of robustness and accuracy.

804
TMBuD: A dataset for urban scene building detection
2021-10-27
Building recognition and 3D reconstruction of human made structures in urban scenarios has become an interesting and actual topic in the image processing domain. For this research topic the Computer Vision and Augmented Reality areas intersect for creating a better understanding of the urban scenario for various topics. In this paper we aim to introduce a dataset solution, the TMBuD, that is better fitted for image processing on human made structures for urban scene scenarios. The proposed dataset will allow proper evaluation of salient edges and semantic segmentation of images focusing on the street view perspective of buildings. The images that form our dataset offer various street view perspectives of buildings from urban scenarios, which allows for evaluating complex algorithms. The dataset features 160 images of buildings from Timisoara, Romania, with a resolution of 768 x 1024 pixels each.

805
UltraPose: Synthesizing Dense Pose with 1 Billion Points by Human-body Decoupling 3D Model
2021-10-28
Recovering dense human poses from images plays a critical role in establishing an image-to-surface correspondence between RGB images and the 3D surface of the human body, serving the foundation of rich real-world applications, such as virtual humans, monocular-to-3d reconstruction. However, the popular DensePose-COCO dataset relies on a sophisticated manual annotation system, leading to severe limitations in acquiring the denser and more accurate annotated pose resources. In this work, we introduce a new 3D human-body model with a series of decoupled parameters that could freely control the generation of the body. Furthermore, we build a data generation system based on this decoupling 3D model, and construct an ultra dense synthetic benchmark UltraPose, containing around 1.3 billion corresponding points. Compared to the existing manually annotated DensePose-COCO dataset, the synthetic UltraPose has ultra dense image-to-surface correspondences without annotation cost and error. Our proposed UltraPose provides the largest benchmark and data resources for lifting the model capability in predicting more accurate dense poses. To promote future researches in this field, we also propose a transformer-based method to model the dense correspondence between 2D and 3D worlds. The proposed model trained on synthetic UltraPose can be applied to real-world scenarios, indicating the effectiveness of our benchmark and model.

806
A Comparative Study of Coarse to Dense 3D Indoor Scene Registration Algorithms
2021-10-28
3D alignment has become a very important part of 3D scanning technology. For instance, we can divide the alignment process into four steps: key point detection, key point description, initial pose estimation, and alignment refinement. Researchers have contributed several approaches to the literature for each step, which suggests a natural need for a comparative study for an educated more appropriate choice. In this work, we propose a description and an evaluation of the different methods used for 3D registration with special focus on RGB-D data to find the best combinations that permit a complete and more accurate 3D reconstruction of indoor scenes with cheap depth cameras.

807
FaceScape: 3D Facial Dataset and Benchmark for Single-View 3D Face Reconstruction
2021-11-01
In this paper, we present a large-scale detailed 3D face dataset, FaceScape, and the corresponding benchmark to evaluate single-view facial 3D reconstruction. By training on FaceScape data, a novel algorithm is proposed to predict elaborate riggable 3D face models from a single image input. FaceScape dataset provides 18,760 textured 3D faces, captured from 938 subjects and each with 20 specific expressions. The 3D models contain the pore-level facial geometry that is also processed to be topologically uniformed. These fine 3D facial models can be represented as a 3D morphable model for rough shapes and displacement maps for detailed geometry. Taking advantage of the large-scale and high-accuracy dataset, a novel algorithm is further proposed to learn the expression-specific dynamic details using a deep neural network. The learned relationship serves as the foundation of our 3D face prediction system from a single image input. Different than the previous methods, our predicted 3D models are riggable with highly detailed geometry under different expressions. We also use FaceScape data to generate the in-the-wild and in-the-lab benchmark to evaluate recent methods of single-view face reconstruction. The accuracy is reported and analyzed on the dimensions of camera pose and focal length, which provides a faithful and comprehensive evaluation and reveals new challenges. The unprecedented dataset, benchmark, and code have been released to the public for research purpose.

808
Monocular 3D Reconstruction of Interacting Hands via Collision-Aware Factorized Refinements
2021-11-01
3D interacting hand reconstruction is essential to facilitate human-machine interaction and human behaviors understanding. Previous works in this field either rely on auxiliary inputs such as depth images or they can only handle a single hand if monocular single RGB images are used. Single-hand methods tend to generate collided hand meshes, when applied to closely interacting hands, since they cannot model the interactions between two hands explicitly. In this paper, we make the first attempt to reconstruct 3D interacting hands from monocular single RGB images. Our method can generate 3D hand meshes with both precise 3D poses and minimal collisions. This is made possible via a two-stage framework. Specifically, the first stage adopts a convolutional neural network to generate coarse predictions that tolerate collisions but encourage pose-accurate hand meshes. The second stage progressively ameliorates the collisions through a series of factorized refinements while retaining the preciseness of 3D poses. We carefully investigate potential implementations for the factorized refinement, considering the trade-off between efficiency and accuracy. Extensive quantitative and qualitative results on large-scale datasets such as InterHand2.6M demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.

809
Towards Panoptic 3D Parsing for Single Image in the Wild
2021-11-04
Performing single image holistic understanding and 3D reconstruction is a central task in computer vision. This paper presents an integrated system that performs dense scene labeling, object detection, instance segmentation, depth estimation, 3D shape reconstruction, and 3D layout estimation for indoor and outdoor scenes from a single RGB image. We name our system panoptic 3D parsing (Panoptic3D) in which panoptic segmentation ("stuff" segmentation and "things" detection/segmentation) with 3D reconstruction is performed. We design a stage-wise system, Panoptic3D (stage-wise), where a complete set of annotations is absent. Additionally, we present an end-to-end pipeline, Panoptic3D (end-to-end), trained on a synthetic dataset with a full set of annotations. We show results on both indoor (3D-FRONT) and outdoor (COCO and Cityscapes) scenes. Our proposed panoptic 3D parsing framework points to a promising direction in computer vision. Panoptic3D can be applied to a variety of applications, including autonomous driving, mapping, robotics, design, computer graphics, robotics, human-computer interaction, and augmented reality.

810
Pipeline for 3D reconstruction of the human body from AR/VR headset mounted egocentric cameras
2021-11-09
In this paper, we propose a novel pipeline for the 3D reconstruction of the full body from egocentric viewpoints. 3-D reconstruction of the human body from egocentric viewpoints is a challenging task as the view is skewed and the body parts farther from the cameras are occluded. One such example is the view from cameras installed below VR headsets. To achieve this task, we first make use of conditional GANs to translate the egocentric views to full body third-person views. This increases the comprehensibility of the image and caters to occlusions. The generated third-person view is further sent through the 3D reconstruction module that generates a 3D mesh of the body. We also train a network that can take the third person full-body view of the subject and generate the texture maps for applying on the mesh. The generated mesh has fairly realistic body proportions and is fully rigged allowing for further applications such as real-time animation and pose transfer in games. This approach can be key to a new domain of mobile human telepresence.

811
TANDEM: Tracking and Dense Mapping in Real-time using Deep Multi-view Stereo
2021-11-14
In this paper, we present TANDEM a real-time monocular tracking and dense mapping framework. For pose estimation, TANDEM performs photometric bundle adjustment based on a sliding window of keyframes. To increase the robustness, we propose a novel tracking front-end that performs dense direct image alignment using depth maps rendered from a global model that is built incrementally from dense depth predictions. To predict the dense depth maps, we propose Cascade View-Aggregation MVSNet (CVA-MVSNet) that utilizes the entire active keyframe window by hierarchically constructing 3D cost volumes with adaptive view aggregation to balance the different stereo baselines between the keyframes. Finally, the predicted depth maps are fused into a consistent global map represented as a truncated signed distance function (TSDF) voxel grid. Our experimental results show that TANDEM outperforms other state-of-the-art traditional and learning-based monocular visual odometry (VO) methods in terms of camera tracking. Moreover, TANDEM shows state-of-the-art real-time 3D reconstruction performance.

812
Dense Keypoints via Multiview Supervision
2021-12-01
This paper presents a new end-to-end semi-supervised framework to learn a dense keypoint detector using unlabeled multiview images. A key challenge lies in nding the exact correspondences between the dense keypoints in multiple views since the inverse of the keypoint mapping can be neither analytically derived nor differentiated. This limits applying existing multiview supervision approaches used to learn sparse keypoints that rely on the exact correspondences. To address this challenge, we derive a new probabilistic epipolar constraint that encodes the two desired properties. (1) Soft correspondence: we dene a matchability, which measures a likelihood of a point matching to the other images corresponding point, thus relaxing the requirement of the exact correspondences. (2) Geometric consistency: every point in the continuous correspondence elds must satisfy the multiview consistency collectively. We formulate a probabilistic epipolar constraint using a weighted average of epipolar errors through the matchability thereby generalizing the point-to-point geometric error to the eld-to-eld geometric error. This generalization facilitates learning a geometrically coherent dense keypoint detection model by utilizing a large number of unlabeled multiview images. Additionally, to prevent degenerative cases, we employ a distillation-based regularization by using a pretrained model. Finally, we design a new neural network architecture, made of twin networks, that effectively minimizes the probabilistic epipolar errors of all possible correspondences between two view images by building afnity matrices. Our method shows superior performance compared to existing methods, including non-differentiable bootstrapping in terms of keypoint accuracy, multiview consistency, and 3D reconstruction accuracy.

813
REMIPS: Physically Consistent 3D Reconstruction of Multiple Interacting People under Weak Supervision
2021-12-01
The three-dimensional reconstruction of multiple interacting humans given a monocular image is crucial for the general task of scene understanding, as capturing the subtleties of interaction is often the very reason for taking a picture. Current 3D human reconstruction methods either treat each person independently, ignoring most of the context, or reconstruct people jointly, but cannot recover interactions correctly when people are in close proximity. In this work, we introduce \textbf{REMIPS}, a model for 3D \underline{Re}construction of \underline{M}ultiple \underline{I}nteracting \underline{P}eople under Weak \underline{S}upervision. \textbf{REMIPS} can reconstruct a variable number of people directly from monocular images. At the core of our methodology stands a novel transformer network that combines unordered person tokens (one for each detected human) with positional-encoded tokens from image features patches. We introduce a novel unified model for self- and interpenetration-collisions based on a mesh approximation computed by applying decimation operators. We rely on self-supervised losses for flexibility and generalisation in-the-wild and incorporate self-contact and interaction-contact losses directly into the learning process. With \textbf{REMIPS}, we report state-of-the-art quantitative results on common benchmarks even in cases where no 3D supervision is used. Additionally, qualitative visual results show that our reconstructions are plausible in terms of pose and shape and coherent for challenging images, collected in-the-wild, where people are often interacting.

814
Monocular Road Planar Parallax Estimation
2021-11-22
Estimating the 3D structure of the drivable surface and surrounding environment is a crucial task for assisted and autonomous driving. It is commonly solved either by using 3D sensors such as LiDAR or directly predicting the depth of points via deep learning. However, the former is expensive, and the latter lacks the use of geometry information for the scene. In this paper, instead of following existing methodologies, we propose Road Planar Parallax Attention Network (RPANet), a new deep neural network for 3D sensing from monocular image sequences based on planar parallax, which takes full advantage of the omnipresent road plane geometry in driving scenes. RPANet takes a pair of images aligned by the homography of the road plane as input and outputs a $\gamma$ map (the ratio of height to depth) for 3D reconstruction. The $\gamma$ map has the potential to construct a two-dimensional transformation between two consecutive frames. It implies planar parallax and can be combined with the road plane serving as a reference to estimate the 3D structure by warping the consecutive frames. Furthermore, we introduce a novel cross-attention module to make the network better perceive the displacements caused by planar parallax. To verify the effectiveness of our method, we sample data from the Waymo Open Dataset and construct annotations related to planar parallax. Comprehensive experiments are conducted on the sampled dataset to demonstrate the 3D reconstruction accuracy of our approach in challenging scenarios.

815
Neural Fields in Visual Computing and Beyond
2021-11-22
Recent advances in machine learning have created increasing interest in solving visual computing problems using a class of coordinate-based neural networks that parametrize physical properties of scenes or objects across space and time. These methods, which we call neural fields, have seen successful application in the synthesis of 3D shapes and image, animation of human bodies, 3D reconstruction, and pose estimation. However, due to rapid progress in a short time, many papers exist but a comprehensive review and formulation of the problem has not yet emerged. In this report, we address this limitation by providing context, mathematical grounding, and an extensive review of literature on neural fields. This report covers research along two dimensions. In Part I, we focus on techniques in neural fields by identifying common components of neural field methods, including different representations, architectures, forward mapping, and generalization methods. In Part II, we focus on applications of neural fields to different problems in visual computing, and beyond (e.g., robotics, audio). Our review shows the breadth of topics already covered in visual computing, both historically and in current incarnations, demonstrating the improved quality, flexibility, and capability brought by neural fields methods. Finally, we present a companion website that contributes a living version of this review that can be continually updated by the community.

816
ColDE: A Depth Estimation Framework for Colonoscopy Reconstruction
2021-11-19
One of the key elements of reconstructing a 3D mesh from a monocular video is generating every frame's depth map. However, in the application of colonoscopy video reconstruction, producing good-quality depth estimation is challenging. Neural networks can be easily fooled by photometric distractions or fail to capture the complex shape of the colon surface, predicting defective shapes that result in broken meshes. Aiming to fundamentally improve the depth estimation quality for colonoscopy 3D reconstruction, in this work we have designed a set of training losses to deal with the special challenges of colonoscopy data. For better training, a set of geometric consistency objectives was developed, using both depth and surface normal information. Also, the classic photometric loss was extended with feature matching to compensate for illumination noise. With the training losses powerful enough, our self-supervised framework named ColDE is able to produce better depth maps of colonoscopy data as compared to the previous work utilizing prior depth knowledge. Used in reconstruction, our network is able to reconstruct good-quality colon meshes in real-time without any post-processing, making it the first to be clinically applicable.

817
Exploiting 3D Shape Bias towards Robust Vision
2021-10-12
Robustness research in machine vision faces a challenge. Many variants of ImageNet-scale robustness benchmarks have been proposed, only to reveal that current vision systems fail under distributional shifts. Although aiming for higher robustness accuracy on these benchmarks is important, we also observe that simply using larger models and larger training datasets may not lead to true robustness, demanding further innovation. To tackle the problem from a new perspective, we encourage closer collaboration between the robustness and 3D vision communities. This proposal is inspired by human vision, which is surprisingly robust to environmental variation, including both naturally occurring disturbances and artificial corruptions. We hypothesize that such robustness, at least in part, arises from our ability to infer 3D geometry from 2D retinal projections. In this work, we take a first step toward testing this hypothesis by viewing 3D reconstruction as a pretraining method for building more robust vision systems. We introduce a novel dataset called Geon3D, which is derived from objects that emphasize variation across shape features that the human visual system is thought to be particularly sensitive. This dataset enables, for the first time, a controlled setting where we can isolate the effect of ``3D shape bias'' in robustifying neural networks, and informs new approaches for increasing robustness by exploiting 3D vision tasks. Using Geon3D, we find that CNNs pretrained on 3D reconstruction are more resilient to viewpoint change, rotation, and shift than regular CNNs. Further, when combined with adversarial training, 3D reconstruction pretrained models improve adversarial and common corruption robustness over vanilla adversarially-trained models. We hope that our findings and dataset will encourage exploitation of synergies between the robustness researchers, 3D computer vision community, and computational perception researchers in cognitive science, paving a way for achieving human-like robustness under complex, real-world stimuli conditions.

818
Neural Fields as Learnable Kernels for 3D Reconstruction
2021-11-26
We present Neural Kernel Fields: a novel method for reconstructing implicit 3D shapes based on a learned kernel ridge regression. Our technique achieves state-of-the-art results when reconstructing 3D objects and large scenes from sparse oriented points, and can reconstruct shape categories outside the training set with almost no drop in accuracy. The core insight of our approach is that kernel methods are extremely effective for reconstructing shapes when the chosen kernel has an appropriate inductive bias. We thus factor the problem of shape reconstruction into two parts: (1) a backbone neural network which learns kernel parameters from data, and (2) a kernel ridge regression that fits the input points on-the-fly by solving a simple positive definite linear system using the learned kernel. As a result of this factorization, our reconstruction gains the benefits of data-driven methods under sparse point density while maintaining interpolatory behavior, which converges to the ground truth shape as input sampling density increases. Our experiments demonstrate a strong generalization capability to objects outside the train-set category and scanned scenes. Source code and pretrained models are available at https://nv-tlabs.github.io/nkf.

819
Gradient-SDF: A Semi-Implicit Surface Representation for 3D Reconstruction
2021-11-26
We present Gradient-SDF, a novel representation for 3D geometry that combines the advantages of implict and explicit representations. By storing at every voxel both the signed distance field as well as its gradient vector field, we enhance the capability of implicit representations with approaches originally formulated for explicit surfaces. As concrete examples, we show that (1) the Gradient-SDF allows us to perform direct SDF tracking from depth images, using efficient storage schemes like hash maps, and that (2) the Gradient-SDF representation enables us to perform photometric bundle adjustment directly in a voxel representation (without transforming into a point cloud or mesh), naturally a fully implicit optimization of geometry and camera poses and easy geometry upsampling. Experimental results confirm that this leads to significantly sharper reconstructions. Since the overall SDF voxel structure is still respected, the proposed Gradient-SDF is equally suited for (GPU) parallelization as related approaches.

820
Exploiting full Resolution Feature Context for Liver Tumor and Vessel Segmentation via Integrate Framework: Application to Liver Tumor and Vessel 3D Reconstruction under embedded microprocessor
2021-11-26
Liver cancer is one of the most common malignant diseases in the world. Segmentation and labeling of liver tumors and blood vessels in CT images can provide convenience for doctors in liver tumor diagnosis and surgical intervention. In the past decades, many state-of-the-art medical image segmentation algorithms appeared during this period. With the development of embedded devices, embedded deployment for medical segmentation and automatic reconstruction brings prospects for future automated surgical tasks. Yet, most of the existing segmentation methods mostly care about the spatial feature context and have a perception defect in the semantic relevance of medical images, which significantly affects the segmentation accuracy of liver tumors and blood vessels. Deploying large and complex models into embedded devices requires a reasonable trade-off between model accuracy, reasoning speed and model capacity. Given these problems, we introduce a multi-scale feature fusion network called TransFusionNet based on Transformer. This network achieved very competitive performance for liver vessel and liver tumor segmentation tasks, meanwhile it can improve the recognition of morphologic margins of liver tumors by exploiting the global information of CT images. Experiments show that in vessel segmentation task TransFusionNet achieved mean Dice coefficients of 0.899 and in liver tumor segmentation task TransFusionNet achieved mean Dice coefficients of 0.961. Compared with the state-of-the-art framework, our model achieves the best segmentation result. In addition, we deployed the model into an embedded micro-structure and constructed an integrated model for liver tumor vascular segmentation and reconstruction. This proprietary structure will be the exclusive component of the future medical field.

821
VaxNeRF: Revisiting the Classic for Voxel-Accelerated Neural Radiance Field
2021-11-25
Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) is a popular method in data-driven 3D reconstruction. Given its simplicity and high quality rendering, many NeRF applications are being developed. However, NeRF's big limitation is its slow speed. Many attempts are made to speeding up NeRF training and inference, including intricate code-level optimization and caching, use of sophisticated data structures, and amortization through multi-task and meta learning. In this work, we revisit the basic building blocks of NeRF through the lens of classic techniques before NeRF. We propose Voxel-Accelearated NeRF (VaxNeRF), integrating NeRF with visual hull, a classic 3D reconstruction technique only requiring binary foreground-background pixel labels per image. Visual hull, which can be optimized in about 10 seconds, can provide coarse in-out field separation to omit substantial amounts of network evaluations in NeRF. We provide a clean fully-pythonic, JAX-based implementation on the popular JaxNeRF codebase, consisting of only about 30 lines of code changes and a modular visual hull subroutine, and achieve about 2-8x faster learning on top of the highly-performative JaxNeRF baseline with zero degradation in rendering quality. With sufficient compute, this effectively brings down full NeRF training from hours to 30 minutes. We hope VaxNeRF -- a careful combination of a classic technique with a deep method (that arguably replaced it) -- can empower and accelerate new NeRF extensions and applications, with its simplicity, portability, and reliable performance gains. Codes are available at https://github.com/naruya/VaxNeRF .

822
Motion-from-Blur: 3D Shape and Motion Estimation of Motion-blurred Objects in Videos
2021-11-29
We propose a method for jointly estimating the 3D motion, 3D shape, and appearance of highly motion-blurred objects from a video. To this end, we model the blurred appearance of a fast moving object in a generative fashion by parametrizing its 3D position, rotation, velocity, acceleration, bounces, shape, and texture over the duration of a predefined time window spanning multiple frames. Using differentiable rendering, we are able to estimate all parameters by minimizing the pixel-wise reprojection error to the input video via backpropagating through a rendering pipeline that accounts for motion blur by averaging the graphics output over short time intervals. For that purpose, we also estimate the camera exposure gap time within the same optimization. To account for abrupt motion changes like bounces, we model the motion trajectory as a piece-wise polynomial, and we are able to estimate the specific time of the bounce at sub-frame accuracy. Experiments on established benchmark datasets demonstrate that our method outperforms previous methods for fast moving object deblurring and 3D reconstruction.

823
Urban Radiance Fields
2021-11-29
The goal of this work is to perform 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis from data captured by scanning platforms commonly deployed for world mapping in urban outdoor environments (e.g., Street View). Given a sequence of posed RGB images and lidar sweeps acquired by cameras and scanners moving through an outdoor scene, we produce a model from which 3D surfaces can be extracted and novel RGB images can be synthesized. Our approach extends Neural Radiance Fields, which has been demonstrated to synthesize realistic novel images for small scenes in controlled settings, with new methods for leveraging asynchronously captured lidar data, for addressing exposure variation between captured images, and for leveraging predicted image segmentations to supervise densities on rays pointing at the sky. Each of these three extensions provides significant performance improvements in experiments on Street View data. Our system produces state-of-the-art 3D surface reconstructions and synthesizes higher quality novel views in comparison to both traditional methods (e.g.~COLMAP) and recent neural representations (e.g.~Mip-NeRF).

824
TransMVSNet: Global Context-aware Multi-view Stereo Network with Transformers
2021-11-29
In this paper, we present TransMVSNet, based on our exploration of feature matching in multi-view stereo (MVS). We analogize MVS back to its nature of a feature matching task and therefore propose a powerful Feature Matching Transformer (FMT) to leverage intra- (self-) and inter- (cross-) attention to aggregate long-range context information within and across images. To facilitate a better adaptation of the FMT, we leverage an Adaptive Receptive Field (ARF) module to ensure a smooth transit in scopes of features and bridge different stages with a feature pathway to pass transformed features and gradients across different scales. In addition, we apply pair-wise feature correlation to measure similarity between features, and adopt ambiguity-reducing focal loss to strengthen the supervision. To the best of our knowledge, TransMVSNet is the first attempt to leverage Transformer into the task of MVS. As a result, our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on DTU dataset, Tanks and Temples benchmark, and BlendedMVS dataset. The code of our method will be made available at https://github.com/MegviiRobot/TransMVSNet .

825
IB-MVS: An Iterative Algorithm for Deep Multi-View Stereo based on Binary Decisions
2021-11-29
We present a novel deep-learning-based method for Multi-View Stereo. Our method estimates high resolution and highly precise depth maps iteratively, by traversing the continuous space of feasible depth values at each pixel in a binary decision fashion. The decision process leverages a deep-network architecture: this computes a pixelwise binary mask that establishes whether each pixel actual depth is in front or behind its current iteration individual depth hypothesis. Moreover, in order to handle occluded regions, at each iteration the results from different source images are fused using pixelwise weights estimated by a second network. Thanks to the adopted binary decision strategy, which permits an efficient exploration of the depth space, our method can handle high resolution images without trading resolution and precision. This sets it apart from most alternative learning-based Multi-View Stereo methods, where the explicit discretization of the depth space requires the processing of large cost volumes. We compare our method with state-of-the-art Multi-View Stereo methods on the DTU, Tanks and Temples and the challenging ETH3D benchmarks and show competitive results.

826
LatentHuman: Shape-and-Pose Disentangled Latent Representation for Human Bodies
2021-11-30
3D representation and reconstruction of human bodies have been studied for a long time in computer vision. Traditional methods rely mostly on parametric statistical linear models, limiting the space of possible bodies to linear combinations. It is only recently that some approaches try to leverage neural implicit representations for human body modeling, and while demonstrating impressive results, they are either limited by representation capability or not physically meaningful and controllable. In this work, we propose a novel neural implicit representation for the human body, which is fully differentiable and optimizable with disentangled shape and pose latent spaces. Contrary to prior work, our representation is designed based on the kinematic model, which makes the representation controllable for tasks like pose animation, while simultaneously allowing the optimization of shape and pose for tasks like 3D fitting and pose tracking. Our model can be trained and fine-tuned directly on non-watertight raw data with well-designed losses. Experiments demonstrate the improved 3D reconstruction performance over SoTA approaches and show the applicability of our method to shape interpolation, model fitting, pose tracking, and motion retargeting.

827
A Dataset-Dispersion Perspective on Reconstruction Versus Recognition in Single-View 3D Reconstruction Networks
2021-11-30
Neural networks (NN) for single-view 3D reconstruction (SVR) have gained in popularity. Recent work points out that for SVR, most cutting-edge NNs have limited performance on reconstructing unseen objects because they rely primarily on recognition (i.e., classification-based methods) rather than shape reconstruction. To understand this issue in depth, we provide a systematic study on when and why NNs prefer recognition to reconstruction and vice versa. Our finding shows that a leading factor in determining recognition versus reconstruction is how dispersed the training data is. Thus, we introduce the dispersion score, a new data-driven metric, to quantify this leading factor and study its effect on NNs. We hypothesize that NNs are biased toward recognition when training images are more dispersed and training shapes are less dispersed. Our hypothesis is supported and the dispersion score is proved effective through our experiments on synthetic and benchmark datasets. We show that the proposed metric is a principal way to analyze reconstruction quality and provides novel information in addition to the conventional reconstruction score.

828
ESL: Event-based Structured Light
2021-11-30
Event cameras are bio-inspired sensors providing significant advantages over standard cameras such as low latency, high temporal resolution, and high dynamic range. We propose a novel structured-light system using an event camera to tackle the problem of accurate and high-speed depth sensing. Our setup consists of an event camera and a laser-point projector that uniformly illuminates the scene in a raster scanning pattern during 16 ms. Previous methods match events independently of each other, and so they deliver noisy depth estimates at high scanning speeds in the presence of signal latency and jitter. In contrast, we optimize an energy function designed to exploit event correlations, called spatio-temporal consistency. The resulting method is robust to event jitter and therefore performs better at higher scanning speeds. Experiments demonstrate that our method can deal with high-speed motion and outperform state-of-the-art 3D reconstruction methods based on event cameras, reducing the RMSE by 83% on average, for the same acquisition time.

829
MonoScene: Monocular 3D Semantic Scene Completion
2021-12-01
MonoScene proposes a 3D Semantic Scene Completion (SSC) framework, where the dense geometry and semantics of a scene are inferred from a single monocular RGB image. Different from the SSC literature, relying on 2.5 or 3D input, we solve the complex problem of 2D to 3D scene reconstruction while jointly inferring its semantics. Our framework relies on successive 2D and 3D UNets bridged by a novel 2D-3D features projection inspiring from optics and introduces a 3D context relation prior to enforce spatio-semantic consistency. Along with architectural contributions, we introduce novel global scene and local frustums losses. Experiments show we outperform the literature on all metrics and datasets while hallucinating plausible scenery even beyond the camera field of view. Our code and trained models are available at https://github.com/cv-rits/MonoScene.

830
3D Reconstruction Using a Linear Laser Scanner and a Camera
2021-12-01
With the rapid development of computer graphics and vision, several three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction techniques have been proposed and used to obtain the 3D representation of objects in the form of point cloud models, mesh models, and geometric models. The cost of 3D reconstruction is declining due to the maturing of this technology, however, the inexpensive 3D reconstruction scanners on the market may not be able to generate a clear point cloud model as expected. This study systematically reviews some basic types of 3D reconstruction technology and introduces an easy implementation using a linear laser scanner, a camera, and a turntable. The implementation is based on the monovision with laser and has tested several objects like wiki and mug. The accuracy and resolution of the point cloud result are quite satisfying. It turns out everyone can build such a 3D reconstruction system with appropriate procedures.

831
VoRTX: Volumetric 3D Reconstruction With Transformers for Voxelwise View Selection and Fusion
2021-12-01
Recent volumetric 3D reconstruction methods can produce very accurate results, with plausible geometry even for unobserved surfaces. However, they face an undesirable trade-off when it comes to multi-view fusion. They can fuse all available view information by global averaging, thus losing fine detail, or they can heuristically cluster views for local fusion, thus restricting their ability to consider all views jointly. Our key insight is that greater detail can be retained without restricting view diversity by learning a view-fusion function conditioned on camera pose and image content. We propose to learn this multi-view fusion using a transformer. To this end, we introduce VoRTX, an end-to-end volumetric 3D reconstruction network using transformers for wide-baseline, multi-view feature fusion. Our model is occlusion-aware, leveraging the transformer architecture to predict an initial, projective scene geometry estimate. This estimate is used to avoid backprojecting image features through surfaces into occluded regions. We train our model on ScanNet and show that it produces better reconstructions than state-of-the-art methods. We also demonstrate generalization without any fine-tuning, outperforming the same state-of-the-art methods on two other datasets, TUM-RGBD and ICL-NUIM.

832
3DVNet: Multi-View Depth Prediction and Volumetric Refinement
2021-12-01
We present 3DVNet, a novel multi-view stereo (MVS) depth-prediction method that combines the advantages of previous depth-based and volumetric MVS approaches. Our key idea is the use of a 3D scene-modeling network that iteratively updates a set of coarse depth predictions, resulting in highly accurate predictions which agree on the underlying scene geometry. Unlike existing depth-prediction techniques, our method uses a volumetric 3D convolutional neural network (CNN) that operates in world space on all depth maps jointly. The network can therefore learn meaningful scene-level priors. Furthermore, unlike existing volumetric MVS techniques, our 3D CNN operates on a feature-augmented point cloud, allowing for effective aggregation of multi-view information and flexible iterative refinement of depth maps. Experimental results show our method exceeds state-of-the-art accuracy in both depth prediction and 3D reconstruction metrics on the ScanNet dataset, as well as a selection of scenes from the TUM-RGBD and ICL-NUIM datasets. This shows that our method is both effective and generalizes to new settings.

833
Generating Diverse 3D Reconstructions from a Single Occluded Face Image
2021-12-01
Occlusions are a common occurrence in unconstrained face images. Single image 3D reconstruction from such face images often suffers from corruption due to the presence of occlusions. Furthermore, while a plurality of 3D reconstructions is plausible in the occluded regions, existing approaches are limited to generating only a single solution. To address both of these challenges, we present Diverse3DFace, which is specifically designed to simultaneously generate a diverse and realistic set of 3D reconstructions from a single occluded face image. It consists of three components: a global+local shape fitting process, a graph neural network-based mesh VAE, and a Determinantal Point Process based diversity promoting iterative optimization procedure. Quantitative and qualitative comparisons of 3D reconstruction on occluded faces show that Diverse3DFace can estimate 3D shapes that are consistent with the visible regions in the target image while exhibiting high, yet realistic, levels of diversity on the occluded regions. On face images occluded by masks, glasses, and other random objects, Diverse3DFace generates a distribution of 3D shapes having ~50% higher diversity on the occluded regions compared to the baselines. Moreover, our closest sample to the ground truth has ~40% lower MSE than the singular reconstructions by existing approaches.

834
CoNeRF: Controllable Neural Radiance Fields
2021-12-03
We extend neural 3D representations to allow for intuitive and interpretable user control beyond novel view rendering (i.e. camera control). We allow the user to annotate which part of the scene one wishes to control with just a small number of mask annotations in the training images. Our key idea is to treat the attributes as latent variables that are regressed by the neural network given the scene encoding. This leads to a few-shot learning framework, where attributes are discovered automatically by the framework, when annotations are not provided. We apply our method to various scenes with different types of controllable attributes (e.g. expression control on human faces, or state control in movement of inanimate objects). Overall, we demonstrate, to the best of our knowledge, for the first time novel view and novel attribute re-rendering of scenes from a single video.

835
Geometry-aware Two-scale PIFu Representation for Human Reconstruction
2021-12-03
Although PIFu-based 3D human reconstruction methods are popular, the quality of recovered details is still unsatisfactory. In a sparse (e.g., 3 RGBD sensors) capture setting, the depth noise is typically amplified in the PIFu representation, resulting in flat facial surfaces and geometry-fallible bodies. In this paper, we propose a novel geometry-aware two-scale PIFu for 3D human reconstruction from sparse, noisy inputs. Our key idea is to exploit the complementary properties of depth denoising and 3D reconstruction, for learning a two-scale PIFu representation to reconstruct high-frequency facial details and consistent bodies separately. To this end, we first formulate depth denoising and 3D reconstruction as a multi-task learning problem. The depth denoising process enriches the local geometry information of the reconstruction features, while the reconstruction process enhances depth denoising with global topology information. We then propose to learn the two-scale PIFu representation using two MLPs based on the denoised depth and geometry-aware features. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in reconstructing facial details and bodies of different poses and its superiority over state-of-the-art methods.

836
Input-level Inductive Biases for 3D Reconstruction
2021-12-06
Much of the recent progress in 3D vision has been driven by the development of specialized architectures that incorporate geometrical inductive biases. In this paper we tackle 3D reconstruction using a domain agnostic architecture and study how instead to inject the same type of inductive biases directly as extra inputs to the model. This approach makes it possible to apply existing general models, such as Perceivers, on this rich domain, without the need for architectural changes, while simultaneously maintaining data efficiency of bespoke models. In particular we study how to encode cameras, projective ray incidence and epipolar geometry as model inputs, and demonstrate competitive multi-view depth estimation performance on multiple benchmarks.

837
Generalized Binary Search Network for Highly-Efficient Multi-View Stereo
2021-12-04
Multi-view Stereo (MVS) with known camera parameters is essentially a 1D search problem within a valid depth range. Recent deep learning-based MVS methods typically densely sample depth hypotheses in the depth range, and then construct prohibitively memory-consuming 3D cost volumes for depth prediction. Although coarse-to-fine sampling strategies alleviate this overhead issue to a certain extent, the efficiency of MVS is still an open challenge. In this work, we propose a novel method for highly efficient MVS that remarkably decreases the memory footprint, meanwhile clearly advancing state-of-the-art depth prediction performance. We investigate what a search strategy can be reasonably optimal for MVS taking into account of both efficiency and effectiveness. We first formulate MVS as a binary search problem, and accordingly propose a generalized binary search network for MVS. Specifically, in each step, the depth range is split into 2 bins with extra 1 error tolerance bin on both sides. A classification is performed to identify which bin contains the true depth. We also design three mechanisms to respectively handle classification errors, deal with out-of-range samples and decrease the training memory. The new formulation makes our method only sample a very small number of depth hypotheses in each step, which is highly memory efficient, and also greatly facilitates quick training convergence. Experiments on competitive benchmarks show that our method achieves state-of-the-art accuracy with much less memory. Particularly, our method obtains an overall score of 0.289 on DTU dataset and tops the first place on challenging Tanks and Temples advanced dataset among all the learning-based methods. The trained models and code will be released at https://github.com/MiZhenxing/GBi-Net.

838
What's Behind the Couch? Directed Ray Distance Functions (DRDF) for 3D Scene Reconstruction
2021-12-08
We present an approach for full 3D scene reconstruction from a single unseen image. We train on dataset of realistic non-watertight scans of scenes. Our approach predicts a distance function, since these have shown promise in handling complex topologies and large spaces. We identify and analyze two key challenges for predicting such image conditioned distance functions that have prevented their success on real 3D scene data. First, we show that predicting a conventional scene distance from an image requires reasoning over a large receptive field. Second, we analytically show that the optimal output of the network trained to predict these distance functions does not obey all the distance function properties. We propose an alternate distance function, the Directed Ray Distance Function (DRDF), that tackles both challenges. We show that a deep network trained to predict DRDFs outperforms all other methods quantitatively and qualitatively on 3D reconstruction from single image on Matterport3D, 3DFront, and ScanNet.

839
Adversarial Parametric Pose Prior
2021-12-08
The Skinned Multi-Person Linear (SMPL) model can represent a human body by mapping pose and shape parameters to body meshes. This has been shown to facilitate inferring 3D human pose and shape from images via different learning models. However, not all pose and shape parameter values yield physically-plausible or even realistic body meshes. In other words, SMPL is under-constrained and may thus lead to invalid results when used to reconstruct humans from images, either by directly optimizing its parameters, or by learning a mapping from the image to these parameters. In this paper, we therefore learn a prior that restricts the SMPL parameters to values that produce realistic poses via adversarial training. We show that our learned prior covers the diversity of the real-data distribution, facilitates optimization for 3D reconstruction from 2D keypoints, and yields better pose estimates when used for regression from images. We found that the prior based on spherical distribution gets the best results. Furthermore, in all these tasks, it outperforms the state-of-the-art VAE-based approach to constraining the SMPL parameters.

840
ScaleNet: A Shallow Architecture for Scale Estimation
2021-12-09
In this paper, we address the problem of estimating scale factors between images. We formulate the scale estimation problem as a prediction of a probability distribution over scale factors. We design a new architecture, ScaleNet, that exploits dilated convolutions as well as self and cross-correlation layers to predict the scale between images. We demonstrate that rectifying images with estimated scales leads to significant performance improvements for various tasks and methods. Specifically, we show how ScaleNet can be combined with sparse local features and dense correspondence networks to improve camera pose estimation, 3D reconstruction, or dense geometric matching in different benchmarks and datasets. We provide an extensive evaluation on several tasks and analyze the computational overhead of ScaleNet. The code, evaluation protocols, and trained models are publicly available at https://github.com/axelBarroso/ScaleNet.

841
Roominoes: Generating Novel 3D Floor Plans From Existing 3D Rooms
2021-12-10
Realistic 3D indoor scene datasets have enabled significant recent progress in computer vision, scene understanding, autonomous navigation, and 3D reconstruction. But the scale, diversity, and customizability of existing datasets is limited, and it is time-consuming and expensive to scan and annotate more. Fortunately, combinatorics is on our side: there are enough individual rooms in existing 3D scene datasets, if there was but a way to recombine them into new layouts. In this paper, we propose the task of generating novel 3D floor plans from existing 3D rooms. We identify three sub-tasks of this problem: generation of 2D layout, retrieval of compatible 3D rooms, and deformation of 3D rooms to fit the layout. We then discuss different strategies for solving the problem, and design two representative pipelines: one uses available 2D floor plans to guide selection and deformation of 3D rooms; the other learns to retrieve a set of compatible 3D rooms and combine them into novel layouts. We design a set of metrics that evaluate the generated results with respect to each of the three subtasks and show that different methods trade off performance on these subtasks. Finally, we survey downstream tasks that benefit from generated 3D scenes and discuss strategies in selecting the methods most appropriate for the demands of these tasks.

842
PERF: Performant, Explicit Radiance Fields
2021-12-10
We present a novel way of approaching image-based 3D reconstruction based on radiance fields. The problem of volumetric reconstruction is formulated as a non-linear least-squares problem and solved explicitly without the use of neural networks. This enables the use of solvers with a higher rate of convergence than what is typically used for neural networks, and fewer iterations are required until convergence. The volume is represented using a grid of voxels, with the scene surrounded by a hierarchy of environment maps. This makes it possible to get clean reconstructions of 360{\deg} scenes where the foreground and background is separated. A number of synthetic and real scenes from well known benchmark-suites are successfully reconstructed with quality on par with state-of-the-art methods, but at significantly reduced reconstruction times.

843
Sparse Depth Completion with Semantic Mesh Deformation Optimization
2021-12-10
Sparse depth measurements are widely available in many applications such as augmented reality, visual inertial odometry and robots equipped with low cost depth sensors. Although such sparse depth samples work well for certain applications like motion tracking, a complete depth map is usually preferred for broader applications, such as 3D object recognition, 3D reconstruction and autonomous driving. Despite the recent advancements in depth prediction from single RGB images with deeper neural networks, the existing approaches do not yield reliable results for practical use. In this work, we propose a neural network with post-optimization, which takes an RGB image and sparse depth samples as input and predicts the complete depth map. We make three major contributions to advance the state-of-the-art: an improved backbone network architecture named EDNet, a semantic edge-weighted loss function and a semantic mesh deformation optimization method. Our evaluation results outperform the existing work consistently on both indoor and outdoor datasets, and it significantly reduces the mean average error by up to 19.5% under the same settings of 200 sparse samples on NYU-Depth-V2 dataset.

844
Representing 3D Shapes with Probabilistic Directed Distance Fields
2021-12-10
Differentiable rendering is an essential operation in modern vision, allowing inverse graphics approaches to 3D understanding to be utilized in modern machine learning frameworks. Explicit shape representations (voxels, point clouds, or meshes), while relatively easily rendered, often suffer from limited geometric fidelity or topological constraints. On the other hand, implicit representations (occupancy, distance, or radiance fields) preserve greater fidelity, but suffer from complex or inefficient rendering processes, limiting scalability. In this work, we endeavour to address both shortcomings with a novel shape representation that allows fast differentiable rendering within an implicit architecture. Building on implicit distance representations, we define Directed Distance Fields (DDFs), which map an oriented point (position and direction) to surface visibility and depth. Such a field can render a depth map with a single forward pass per pixel, enable differential surface geometry extraction (e.g., surface normals and curvatures) via network derivatives, be easily composed, and permit extraction of classical unsigned distance fields. Using probabilistic DDFs (PDDFs), we show how to model inherent discontinuities in the underlying field. Finally, we apply our method to fitting single shapes, unpaired 3D-aware generative image modelling, and single-image 3D reconstruction tasks, showcasing strong performance with simple architectural components via the versatility of our representation.

845
Curvature-guided dynamic scale networks for Multi-view Stereo
2021-12-11
Multi-view stereo (MVS) is a crucial task for precise 3D reconstruction. Most recent studies tried to improve the performance of matching cost volume in MVS by designing aggregated 3D cost volumes and their regularization. This paper focuses on learning a robust feature extraction network to enhance the performance of matching costs without heavy computation in the other steps. In particular, we present a dynamic scale feature extraction network, namely, CDSFNet. It is composed of multiple novel convolution layers, each of which can select a proper patch scale for each pixel guided by the normal curvature of the image surface. As a result, CDFSNet can estimate the optimal patch scales to learn discriminative features for accurate matching computation between reference and source images. By combining the robust extracted features with an appropriate cost formulation strategy, our resulting MVS architecture can estimate depth maps more precisely. Extensive experiments showed that the proposed method outperforms other state-of-the-art methods on complex outdoor scenes. It significantly improves the completeness of reconstructed models. As a result, the method can process higher resolution inputs within faster run-time and lower memory than other MVS methods. Our source code is available at url{https://github.com/TruongKhang/cds-mvsnet}.

846
GCNDepth: Self-supervised Monocular Depth Estimation based on Graph Convolutional Network
2021-12-13
Depth estimation is a challenging task of 3D reconstruction to enhance the accuracy sensing of environment awareness. This work brings a new solution with a set of improvements, which increase the quantitative and qualitative understanding of depth maps compared to existing methods. Recently, a convolutional neural network (CNN) has demonstrated its extraordinary ability in estimating depth maps from monocular videos. However, traditional CNN does not support topological structure and they can work only on regular image regions with determined size and weights. On the other hand, graph convolutional networks (GCN) can handle the convolution on non-Euclidean data and it can be applied to irregular image regions within a topological structure. Therefore, in this work in order to preserve object geometric appearances and distributions, we aim at exploiting GCN for a self-supervised depth estimation model. Our model consists of two parallel auto-encoder networks: the first is an auto-encoder that will depend on ResNet-50 and extract the feature from the input image and on multi-scale GCN to estimate the depth map. In turn, the second network will be used to estimate the ego-motion vector (i.e., 3D pose) between two consecutive frames based on ResNet-18. Both the estimated 3D pose and depth map will be used for constructing a target image. A combination of loss functions related to photometric, projection, and smoothness is used to cope with bad depth prediction and preserve the discontinuities of the objects. In particular, our method provided comparable and promising results with a high prediction accuracy of 89% on the publicly KITTI and Make3D datasets along with a reduction of 40% in the number of trainable parameters compared to the state of the art solutions. The source code is publicly available at https://github.com/ArminMasoumian/GCNDepth.git

847
MVLayoutNet:3D layout reconstruction with multi-view panoramas
2021-12-12
We present MVLayoutNet, an end-to-end network for holistic 3D reconstruction from multi-view panoramas. Our core contribution is to seamlessly combine learned monocular layout estimation and multi-view stereo (MVS) for accurate layout reconstruction in both 3D and image space. We jointly train a layout module to produce an initial layout and a novel MVS module to obtain accurate layout geometry. Unlike standard MVSNet [33], our MVS module takes a newly-proposed layout cost volume, which aggregates multi-view costs at the same depth layer into corresponding layout elements. We additionally provide an attention-based scheme that guides the MVS module to focus on structural regions. Such a design considers both local pixel-level costs and global holistic information for better reconstruction. Experiments show that our method outperforms state-of-the-arts in terms of depth rmse by 21.7% and 20.6% on the 2D-3D-S [1] and ZInD [5] datasets. Finally, our method leads to coherent layout geometry that enables the reconstruction of an entire scene.

848
MoCaNet: Motion Retargeting in-the-wild via Canonicalization Networks
2021-12-19
We present a novel framework that brings the 3D motion retargeting task from controlled environments to in-the-wild scenarios. In particular, our method is capable of retargeting body motion from a character in a 2D monocular video to a 3D character without using any motion capture system or 3D reconstruction procedure. It is designed to leverage massive online videos for unsupervised training, needless of 3D annotations or motion-body pairing information. The proposed method is built upon two novel canonicalization operations, structure canonicalization and view canonicalization. Trained with the canonicalization operations and the derived regularizations, our method learns to factorize a skeleton sequence into three independent semantic subspaces, i.e., motion, structure, and view angle. The disentangled representation enables motion retargeting from 2D to 3D with high precision. Our method achieves superior performance on motion transfer benchmarks with large body variations and challenging actions. Notably, the canonicalized skeleton sequence could serve as a disentangled and interpretable representation of human motion that benefits action analysis and motion retrieval.

849
Pose Adaptive Dual Mixup for Few-Shot Single-View 3D Reconstruction
2021-12-23
We present a pose adaptive few-shot learning procedure and a two-stage data interpolation regularization, termed Pose Adaptive Dual Mixup (PADMix), for single-image 3D reconstruction. While augmentations via interpolating feature-label pairs are effective in classification tasks, they fall short in shape predictions potentially due to inconsistencies between interpolated products of two images and volumes when rendering viewpoints are unknown. PADMix targets this issue with two sets of mixup procedures performed sequentially. We first perform an input mixup which, combined with a pose adaptive learning procedure, is helpful in learning 2D feature extraction and pose adaptive latent encoding. The stagewise training allows us to build upon the pose invariant representations to perform a follow-up latent mixup under one-to-one correspondences between features and ground-truth volumes. PADMix significantly outperforms previous literature on few-shot settings over the ShapeNet dataset and sets new benchmarks on the more challenging real-world Pix3D dataset.

850
Multi-View Partial (MVP) Point Cloud Challenge 2021 on Completion and Registration: Methods and Results
2021-12-22
As real-scanned point clouds are mostly partial due to occlusions and viewpoints, reconstructing complete 3D shapes based on incomplete observations becomes a fundamental problem for computer vision. With a single incomplete point cloud, it becomes the partial point cloud completion problem. Given multiple different observations, 3D reconstruction can be addressed by performing partial-to-partial point cloud registration. Recently, a large-scale Multi-View Partial (MVP) point cloud dataset has been released, which consists of over 100,000 high-quality virtual-scanned partial point clouds. Based on the MVP dataset, this paper reports methods and results in the Multi-View Partial Point Cloud Challenge 2021 on Completion and Registration. In total, 128 participants registered for the competition, and 31 teams made valid submissions. The top-ranked solutions will be analyzed, and then we will discuss future research directions.

851
ACDNet: Adaptively Combined Dilated Convolution for Monocular Panorama Depth Estimation
2021-12-29
Depth estimation is a crucial step for 3D reconstruction with panorama images in recent years. Panorama images maintain the complete spatial information but introduce distortion with equirectangular projection. In this paper, we propose an ACDNet based on the adaptively combined dilated convolution to predict the dense depth map for a monocular panoramic image. Specifically, we combine the convolution kernels with different dilations to extend the receptive field in the equirectangular projection. Meanwhile, we introduce an adaptive channel-wise fusion module to summarize the feature maps and get diverse attention areas in the receptive field along the channels. Due to the utilization of channel-wise attention in constructing the adaptive channel-wise fusion module, the network can capture and leverage the cross-channel contextual information efficiently. Finally, we conduct depth estimation experiments on three datasets (both virtual and real-world) and the experimental results demonstrate that our proposed ACDNet substantially outperforms the current state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods. Our codes and model parameters are accessed in https://github.com/zcq15/ACDNet.

852
Multi-initialization Optimization Network for Accurate 3D Human Pose and Shape Estimation
2021-12-24
3D human pose and shape recovery from a monocular RGB image is a challenging task. Existing learning based methods highly depend on weak supervision signals, e.g. 2D and 3D joint location, due to the lack of in-the-wild paired 3D supervision. However, considering the 2D-to-3D ambiguities existed in these weak supervision labels, the network is easy to get stuck in local optima when trained with such labels. In this paper, we reduce the ambituity by optimizing multiple initializations. Specifically, we propose a three-stage framework named Multi-Initialization Optimization Network (MION). In the first stage, we strategically select different coarse 3D reconstruction candidates which are compatible with the 2D keypoints of input sample. Each coarse reconstruction can be regarded as an initialization leads to one optimization branch. In the second stage, we design a mesh refinement transformer (MRT) to respectively refine each coarse reconstruction result via a self-attention mechanism. Finally, a Consistency Estimation Network (CEN) is proposed to find the best result from mutiple candidates by evaluating if the visual evidence in RGB image matches a given 3D reconstruction. Experiments demonstrate that our Multi-Initialization Optimization Network outperforms existing 3D mesh based methods on multiple public benchmarks.

853
Multimodal perception for dexterous manipulation
2021-12-28
Humans usually perceive the world in a multimodal way that vision, touch, sound are utilised to understand surroundings from various dimensions. These senses are combined together to achieve a synergistic effect where the learning is more effectively than using each sense separately. For robotics, vision and touch are two key senses for the dexterous manipulation. Vision usually gives us apparent features like shape, color, and the touch provides local information such as friction, texture, etc. Due to the complementary properties between visual and tactile senses, it is desirable for us to combine vision and touch for a synergistic perception and manipulation. Many researches have been investigated about multimodal perception such as cross-modal learning, 3D reconstruction, multimodal translation with vision and touch. Specifically, we propose a cross-modal sensory data generation framework for the translation between vision and touch, which is able to generate realistic pseudo data. By using this cross-modal translation method, it is desirable for us to make up inaccessible data, helping us to learn the object's properties from different views. Recently, the attention mechanism becomes a popular method either in visual perception or in tactile perception. We propose a spatio-temporal attention model for tactile texture recognition, which takes both spatial features and time dimension into consideration. Our proposed method not only pays attention to the salient features in each spatial feature, but also models the temporal correlation in the through the time. The obvious improvement proves the efficiency of our selective attention mechanism. The spatio-temporal attention method has potential in many applications such as grasping, recognition, and multimodal perception.

854
Improving neural implicit surfaces geometry with patch warping
2021-12-17
Neural implicit surfaces have become an important technique for multi-view 3D reconstruction but their accuracy remains limited. In this paper, we argue that this comes from the difficulty to learn and render high frequency textures with neural networks. We thus propose to add to the standard neural rendering optimization a direct photo-consistency term across the different views. Intuitively, we optimize the implicit geometry so that it warps views on each other in a consistent way. We demonstrate that two elements are key to the success of such an approach: (i) warping entire patches, using the predicted occupancy and normals of the 3D points along each ray, and measuring their similarity with a robust structural similarity (SSIM); (ii) handling visibility and occlusion in such a way that incorrect warps are not given too much importance while encouraging a reconstruction as complete as possible. We evaluate our approach, dubbed NeuralWarp, on the standard DTU and EPFL benchmarks and show it outperforms state of the art unsupervised implicit surfaces reconstructions by over 20% on both datasets.

855
ADJUST: A Dictionary-Based Joint Reconstruction and Unmixing Method for Spectral Tomography
2021-12-21
Advances in multi-spectral detectors are causing a paradigm shift in X-ray Computed Tomography (CT). Spectral information acquired from these detectors can be used to extract volumetric material composition maps of the object of interest. If the materials and their spectral responses are known a priori, the image reconstruction step is rather straightforward. If they are not known, however, the maps as well as the responses need to be estimated jointly. A conventional workflow in spectral CT involves performing volume reconstruction followed by material decomposition, or vice versa. However, these methods inherently suffer from the ill-posedness of the joint reconstruction problem. To resolve this issue, we propose 'A Dictionary-based Joint reconstruction and Unmixing method for Spectral Tomography' (ADJUST). Our formulation relies on forming a dictionary of spectral signatures of materials common in CT and prior knowledge of the number of materials present in an object. In particular, we decompose the spectral volume linearly in terms of spatial material maps, a spectral dictionary, and the indicator of materials for the dictionary elements. We propose a memory-efficient accelerated alternating proximal gradient method to find an approximate solution to the resulting bi-convex problem. From numerical demonstrations on several synthetic phantoms, we observe that ADJUST performs exceedingly well compared to other state-of-the-art methods. Additionally, we address the robustness of ADJUST against limited and noisy measurement patterns. The demonstration of the proposed approach on a spectral micro-CT dataset shows its potential for real-world applications. Code is available at https://github.com/mzeegers/ADJUST.

856
Visual and Object Geo-localization: A Comprehensive Survey
2021-12-30
The concept of geo-localization refers to the process of determining where on earth some `entity' is located, typically using Global Positioning System (GPS) coordinates. The entity of interest may be an image, sequence of images, a video, satellite image, or even objects visible within the image. As massive datasets of GPS tagged media have rapidly become available due to smartphones and the internet, and deep learning has risen to enhance the performance capabilities of machine learning models, the fields of visual and object geo-localization have emerged due to its significant impact on a wide range of applications such as augmented reality, robotics, self-driving vehicles, road maintenance, and 3D reconstruction. This paper provides a comprehensive survey of geo-localization involving images, which involves either determining from where an image has been captured (Image geo-localization) or geo-locating objects within an image (Object geo-localization). We will provide an in-depth study, including a summary of popular algorithms, a description of proposed datasets, and an analysis of performance results to illustrate the current state of each field.

857
Automated 3D reconstruction of LoD2 and LoD1 models for all 10 million buildings of the Netherlands
2021-12-30
In this paper we present our workflow to automatically reconstruct 3D building models based on 2D building polygons and a LiDAR point cloud. The workflow generates models at different levels of detail (LoDs) to support data requirements of different applications from one consistent source. Specific attention has been paid to make the workflow robust to quickly run a new iteration in case of improvements in an algorithm or in case new input data become available. The quality of the reconstructed data highly depends on the quality of the input data and is monitored in several steps of the process. A 3D viewer has been developed to view and download the openly available 3D data at different LoDs in different formats. The workflow has been applied to all 10 million buildings of The Netherlands. The 3D service will be updated after new input data becomes available.

858
Rethinking Depth Estimation for Multi-View Stereo: A Unified Representation
2022-01-05
Depth estimation is solved as a regression or classification problem in existing learning-based multi-view stereo methods. Although these two representations have recently demonstrated their excellent performance, they still have apparent shortcomings, e.g., regression methods tend to overfit due to the indirect learning cost volume, and classification methods cannot directly infer the exact depth due to its discrete prediction. In this paper, we propose a novel representation, termed Unification, to unify the advantages of regression and classification. It can directly constrain the cost volume like classification methods, but also realize the sub-pixel depth prediction like regression methods. To excavate the potential of unification, we design a new loss function named Unified Focal Loss, which is more uniform and reasonable to combat the challenge of sample imbalance. Combining these two unburdened modules, we present a coarse-to-fine framework, that we call UniMVSNet. The results of ranking first on both DTU and Tanks and Temples benchmarks verify that our model not only performs the best but also has the best generalization ability.

859
POCO: Point Convolution for Surface Reconstruction
2022-01-05
Implicit neural networks have been successfully used for surface reconstruction from point clouds. However, many of them face scalability issues as they encode the isosurface function of a whole object or scene into a single latent vector. To overcome this limitation, a few approaches infer latent vectors on a coarse regular 3D grid or on 3D patches, and interpolate them to answer occupancy queries. In doing so, they loose the direct connection with the input points sampled on the surface of objects, and they attach information uniformly in space rather than where it matters the most, i.e., near the surface. Besides, relying on fixed patch sizes may require discretization tuning. To address these issues, we propose to use point cloud convolutions and compute latent vectors at each input point. We then perform a learning-based interpolation on nearest neighbors using inferred weights. Experiments on both object and scene datasets show that our approach significantly outperforms other methods on most classical metrics, producing finer details and better reconstructing thinner volumes. The code is available at https://github.com/valeoai/POCO.

860
Instant Neural Graphics Primitives with a Multiresolution Hash Encoding
2022-01-16
Neural graphics primitives, parameterized by fully connected neural networks, can be costly to train and evaluate. We reduce this cost with a versatile new input encoding that permits the use of a smaller network without sacrificing quality, thus significantly reducing the number of floating point and memory access operations: a small neural network is augmented by a multiresolution hash table of trainable feature vectors whose values are optimized through stochastic gradient descent. The multiresolution structure allows the network to disambiguate hash collisions, making for a simple architecture that is trivial to parallelize on modern GPUs. We leverage this parallelism by implementing the whole system using fully-fused CUDA kernels with a focus on minimizing wasted bandwidth and compute operations. We achieve a combined speedup of several orders of magnitude, enabling training of high-quality neural graphics primitives in a matter of seconds, and rendering in tens of milliseconds at a resolution of ${1920\!\times\!1080}$.

861
Point-NeRF: Point-based Neural Radiance Fields
2022-01-21
Volumetric neural rendering methods like NeRF generate high-quality view synthesis results but are optimized per-scene leading to prohibitive reconstruction time. On the other hand, deep multi-view stereo methods can quickly reconstruct scene geometry via direct network inference. Point-NeRF combines the advantages of these two approaches by using neural 3D point clouds, with associated neural features, to model a radiance field. Point-NeRF can be rendered efficiently by aggregating neural point features near scene surfaces, in a ray marching-based rendering pipeline. Moreover, Point-NeRF can be initialized via direct inference of a pre-trained deep network to produce a neural point cloud; this point cloud can be finetuned to surpass the visual quality of NeRF with 30X faster training time. Point-NeRF can be combined with other 3D reconstruction methods and handles the errors and outliers in such methods via a novel pruning and growing mechanism. The experiments on the DTU, the NeRF Synthetics , the ScanNet and the Tanks and Temples datasets demonstrate Point-NeRF can surpass the existing methods and achieve the state-of-the-art results.

862
Multi-view Monocular Depth and Uncertainty Prediction with Deep SfM in Dynamic Environments
2022-01-21
3D reconstruction of depth and motion from monocular video in dynamic environments is a highly ill-posed problem due to scale ambiguities when projecting to the 2D image domain. In this work, we investigate the performance of the current State-of-the-Art (SotA) deep multi-view systems in such environments. We find that current supervised methods work surprisingly well despite not modelling individual object motions, but make systematic errors due to a lack of dense ground truth data. To detect such errors during usage, we extend the cost volume based Deep Video to Depth (DeepV2D) framework \cite{teed2018deepv2d} with a learned uncertainty. Our Deep Video to certain Depth (DeepV2cD) model allows i) to perform en par or better with current SotA and ii) achieve a better uncertainty measure than the naive Shannon entropy. Our experiments show that a simple filter strategy based on the uncertainty can significantly reduce systematic errors. This results in cleaner reconstructions both on static and dynamic parts of the scene.

863
FaceOcc: A Diverse, High-quality Face Occlusion Dataset for Human Face Extraction
2022-01-20
Occlusions often occur in face images in the wild, troubling face-related tasks such as landmark detection, 3D reconstruction, and face recognition. It is beneficial to extract face regions from unconstrained face images accurately. However, current face segmentation datasets suffer from small data volumes, few occlusion types, low resolution, and imprecise annotation, limiting the performance of data-driven-based algorithms. This paper proposes a novel face occlusion dataset with manually labeled face occlusions from the CelebA-HQ and the internet. The occlusion types cover sunglasses, spectacles, hands, masks, scarfs, microphones, etc. To the best of our knowledge, it is by far the largest and most comprehensive face occlusion dataset. Combining it with the attribute mask in CelebAMask-HQ, we trained a straightforward face segmentation model but obtained SOTA performance, convincingly demonstrating the effectiveness of the proposed dataset.

864
Cyber Mobility Mirror for Enabling Cooperative Driving Automation in Mixed Traffic: A Co-Simulation Platform
2022-01-24
Endowed with automation and connectivity, Connected and Automated Vehicles are meant to be a revolutionary promoter for Cooperative Driving Automation. Nevertheless, CAVs need high-fidelity perception information on their surroundings, which is available but costly to collect from various onboard sensors as well as vehicle-to-everything (V2X) communications. Therefore, authentic perception information based on high-fidelity sensors via a cost-effective platform is crucial for enabling CDA-related research, e.g., cooperative decision-making or control. Most state-of-the-art traffic simulation studies for CAVs rely on situation-awareness information by directly calling on intrinsic attributes of the objects, which impedes the reliability and fidelity of the assessment of CDA algorithms. In this study, a \textit{Cyber Mobility Mirror (CMM)} Co-Simulation Platform is designed for enabling CDA by providing authentic perception information. The \textit{CMM} Co-Simulation Platform can emulate the real world with a high-fidelity sensor perception system and a cyber world with a real-time rebuilding system acting as a "\textit{Mirror}" of the real-world environment. Concretely, the real-world simulator is mainly in charge of simulating the traffic environment, sensors, as well as the authentic perception process. The mirror-world simulator is responsible for rebuilding objects and providing their information as intrinsic attributes of the simulator to support the development and evaluation of CDA algorithms. To illustrate the functionality of the proposed co-simulation platform, a roadside LiDAR-based vehicle perception system for enabling CDA is prototyped as a study case. Specific traffic environments and CDA tasks are designed for experiments whose results are demonstrated and analyzed to show the performance of the platform.

865
Unsupervised Severely Deformed Mesh Reconstruction (DMR) from a Single-View Image
2022-01-23
Much progress has been made in the supervised learning of 3D reconstruction of rigid objects from multi-view images or a video. However, it is more challenging to reconstruct severely deformed objects from a single-view RGB image in an unsupervised manner. Although training-based methods, such as specific category-level training, have been shown to successfully reconstruct rigid objects and slightly deformed objects like birds from a single-view image, they cannot effectively handle severely deformed objects and neither can be applied to some downstream tasks in the real world due to the inconsistent semantic meaning of vertices, which are crucial in defining the adopted 3D templates of objects to be reconstructed. In this work, we introduce a template-based method to infer 3D shapes from a single-view image and apply the reconstructed mesh to a downstream task, i.e., absolute length measurement. Without using 3D ground truth, our method faithfully reconstructs 3D meshes and achieves state-of-the-art accuracy in a length measurement task on a severely deformed fish dataset.

866
Sparse-view Cone Beam CT Reconstruction using Data-consistent Supervised and Adversarial Learning from Scarce Training Data
2022-01-23
Reconstruction of CT images from a limited set of projections through an object is important in several applications ranging from medical imaging to industrial settings. As the number of available projections decreases, traditional reconstruction techniques such as the FDK algorithm and model-based iterative reconstruction methods perform poorly. Recently, data-driven methods such as deep learning-based reconstruction have garnered a lot of attention in applications because they yield better performance when enough training data is available. However, even these methods have their limitations when there is a scarcity of available training data. This work focuses on image reconstruction in such settings, i.e., when both the number of available CT projections and the training data is extremely limited. We adopt a sequential reconstruction approach over several stages using an adversarially trained shallow network for 'destreaking' followed by a data-consistency update in each stage. To deal with the challenge of limited data, we use image subvolumes to train our method, and patch aggregation during testing. To deal with the computational challenge of learning on 3D datasets for 3D reconstruction, we use a hybrid 3D-to-2D mapping network for the 'destreaking' part. Comparisons to other methods over several test examples indicate that the proposed method has much potential, when both the number of projections and available training data are highly limited.

867
Phase-SLAM: Phase Based Simultaneous Localization and Mapping for Mobile Structured Light Illumination Systems
2022-01-22
Structured Light Illumination (SLI) systems have been used for reliable indoor dense 3D scanning via phase triangulation. However, mobile SLI systems for 360 degree 3D reconstruction demand 3D point cloud registration, involving high computational complexity. In this paper, we propose a phase based Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (Phase-SLAM) framework for fast and accurate SLI sensor pose estimation and 3D object reconstruction. The novelty of this work is threefold: (1) developing a reprojection model from 3D points to 2D phase data towards phase registration with low computational complexity; (2) developing a local optimizer to achieve SLI sensor pose estimation (odometry) using the derived Jacobian matrix for the 6 DoF variables; (3) developing a compressive phase comparison method to achieve high-efficiency loop closure detection. The whole Phase-SLAM pipeline is then exploited using existing global pose graph optimization techniques. We build datasets from both the unreal simulation platform and a robotic arm based SLI system in real-world to verify the proposed approach. The experiment results demonstrate that the proposed Phase-SLAM outperforms other state-of-the-art methods in terms of the efficiency and accuracy of pose estimation and 3D reconstruction. The open-source code is available at https://github.com/ZHENGXi-git/Phase-SLAM.

868
On the Issues of TrueDepth Sensor Data for Computer Vision Tasks Across Different iPad Generations
2022-01-26
In 2017 Apple introduced the TrueDepth sensor with the iPhone X release. Although its primary use case is biometric face recognition, the exploitation of accurate depth data for other computer vision tasks like segmentation, portrait image generation and metric 3D reconstruction seems natural and lead to the development of various applications. In this report, we investigate the reliability of TrueDepth data - accessed through two different APIs - on various devices including different iPhone and iPad generations and reveal two different and significant issues on all tested iPads.

869
Unsupervised Single-shot Depth Estimation using Perceptual Reconstruction
2022-01-28
Real-time estimation of actual object depth is an essential module for various autonomous system tasks such as 3D reconstruction, scene understanding and condition assessment. During the last decade of machine learning, extensive deployment of deep learning methods to computer vision tasks has yielded approaches that succeed in achieving realistic depth synthesis out of a simple RGB modality. Most of these models are based on paired RGB-depth data and/or the availability of video sequences and stereo images. The lack of sequences, stereo data and RGB-depth pairs makes depth estimation a fully unsupervised single-image transfer problem that has barely been explored so far. This study builds on recent advances in the field of generative neural networks in order to establish fully unsupervised single-shot depth estimation. Two generators for RGB-to-depth and depth-to-RGB transfer are implemented and simultaneously optimized using the Wasserstein-1 distance, a novel perceptual reconstruction term and hand-crafted image filters. We comprehensively evaluate the models using industrial surface depth data as well as the Texas 3D Face Recognition Database, the CelebAMask-HQ database of human portraits and the SURREAL dataset that records body depth. For each evaluation dataset the proposed method shows a significant increase in depth accuracy compared to state-of-the-art single-image transfer methods.

870
Light field Rectification based on relative pose estimation
2022-01-29
Hand-held light field (LF) cameras have unique advantages in computer vision such as 3D scene reconstruction and depth estimation. However, the related applications are limited by the ultra-small baseline, e.g., leading to the extremely low depth resolution in reconstruction. To solve this problem, we propose to rectify LF to obtain a large baseline. Specifically, the proposed method aligns two LFs captured by two hand-held LF cameras with a random relative pose, and extracts the corresponding row-aligned sub-aperture images (SAIs) to obtain an LF with a large baseline. For an accurate rectification, a method for pose estimation is also proposed, where the relative rotation and translation between the two LF cameras are estimated. The proposed pose estimation minimizes the degree of freedom (DoF) in the LF-point-LF-point correspondence model and explicitly solves this model in a linear way. The proposed pose estimation outperforms the state-of-the-art algorithms by providing more accurate results to support rectification. The significantly improved depth resolution in 3D reconstruction demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed LF rectification.

871
Danish Airs and Grounds: A Dataset for Aerial-to-Street-Level Place Recognition and Localization
2022-02-03
Place recognition and visual localization are particularly challenging in wide baseline configurations. In this paper, we contribute with the \emph{Danish Airs and Grounds} (DAG) dataset, a large collection of street-level and aerial images targeting such cases. Its main challenge lies in the extreme viewing-angle difference between query and reference images with consequent changes in illumination and perspective. The dataset is larger and more diverse than current publicly available data, including more than 50 km of road in urban, suburban and rural areas. All images are associated with accurate 6-DoF metadata that allows the benchmarking of visual localization methods. We also propose a map-to-image re-localization pipeline, that first estimates a dense 3D reconstruction from the aerial images and then matches query street-level images to street-level renderings of the 3D model. The dataset can be downloaded at: https://frederikwarburg.github.io/DAG

872
HRBF-Fusion: Accurate 3D reconstruction from RGB-D data using on-the-fly implicits
2022-02-03
Reconstruction of high-fidelity 3D objects or scenes is a fundamental research problem. Recent advances in RGB-D fusion have demonstrated the potential of producing 3D models from consumer-level RGB-D cameras. However, due to the discrete nature and limited resolution of their surface representations (e.g., point- or voxel-based), existing approaches suffer from the accumulation of errors in camera tracking and distortion in the reconstruction, which leads to an unsatisfactory 3D reconstruction. In this paper, we present a method using on-the-fly implicits of Hermite Radial Basis Functions (HRBFs) as a continuous surface representation for camera tracking in an existing RGB-D fusion framework. Furthermore, curvature estimation and confidence evaluation are coherently derived from the inherent surface properties of the on-the-fly HRBF implicits, which devote to a data fusion with better quality. We argue that our continuous but on-the-fly surface representation can effectively mitigate the impact of noise with its robustness and constrain the reconstruction with inherent surface smoothness when being compared with discrete representations. Experimental results on various real-world and synthetic datasets demonstrate that our HRBF-fusion outperforms the state-of-the-art approaches in terms of tracking robustness and reconstruction accuracy.

873
NeAT: Neural Adaptive Tomography
2022-02-04
In this paper, we present Neural Adaptive Tomography (NeAT), the first adaptive, hierarchical neural rendering pipeline for multi-view inverse rendering. Through a combination of neural features with an adaptive explicit representation, we achieve reconstruction times far superior to existing neural inverse rendering methods. The adaptive explicit representation improves efficiency by facilitating empty space culling and concentrating samples in complex regions, while the neural features act as a neural regularizer for the 3D reconstruction. The NeAT framework is designed specifically for the tomographic setting, which consists only of semi-transparent volumetric scenes instead of opaque objects. In this setting, NeAT outperforms the quality of existing optimization-based tomography solvers while being substantially faster.

874
NeuVV: Neural Volumetric Videos with Immersive Rendering and Editing
2022-02-12
Some of the most exciting experiences that Metaverse promises to offer, for instance, live interactions with virtual characters in virtual environments, require real-time photo-realistic rendering. 3D reconstruction approaches to rendering, active or passive, still require extensive cleanup work to fix the meshes or point clouds. In this paper, we present a neural volumography technique called neural volumetric video or NeuVV to support immersive, interactive, and spatial-temporal rendering of volumetric video contents with photo-realism and in real-time. The core of NeuVV is to efficiently encode a dynamic neural radiance field (NeRF) into renderable and editable primitives. We introduce two types of factorization schemes: a hyper-spherical harmonics (HH) decomposition for modeling smooth color variations over space and time and a learnable basis representation for modeling abrupt density and color changes caused by motion. NeuVV factorization can be integrated into a Video Octree (VOctree) analogous to PlenOctree to significantly accelerate training while reducing memory overhead. Real-time NeuVV rendering further enables a class of immersive content editing tools. Specifically, NeuVV treats each VOctree as a primitive and implements volume-based depth ordering and alpha blending to realize spatial-temporal compositions for content re-purposing. For example, we demonstrate positioning varied manifestations of the same performance at different 3D locations with different timing, adjusting color/texture of the performer's clothing, casting spotlight shadows and synthesizing distance falloff lighting, etc, all at an interactive speed. We further develop a hybrid neural-rasterization rendering framework to support consumer-level VR headsets so that the aforementioned volumetric video viewing and editing, for the first time, can be conducted immersively in virtual 3D space.

875
Automated Aircraft Dent Inspection via a Modified Fourier Transform Profilometry Algorithm
2022-01-07
The search for dents is a consistent part of the aircraft inspection workload. The engineer is required to find, measure, and report each dent over the aircraft skin. This process is not only hazardous, but also extremely subject to human factors and environmental conditions. This study discusses the feasibility of automated dent scanning via a single-shot triangular stereo Fourier transform algorithm, designed to be compatible with the use of an unmanned aerial vehicle. The original algorithm is modified introducing two main contributions. First, the automatic estimation of the pass-band filter removes the user interaction in the phase filtering process. Secondly, the employment of a virtual reference plane reduces unwrapping errors, leading to improved accuracy independently of the chosen unwrapping algorithm. Static experiments reached a mean absolute error of 0.1 mm at a distance of 60 cm, while dynamic experiments showed 0.3 mm at a distance of 120 cm. On average, the mean absolute error decreased by 34%, proving the validity of the proposed single-shot 3D reconstruction algorithm and suggesting its applicability for future automated dent inspections.

876
ViKiNG: Vision-Based Kilometer-Scale Navigation with Geographic Hints
2022-02-23
Robotic navigation has been approached as a problem of 3D reconstruction and planning, as well as an end-to-end learning problem. However, long-range navigation requires both planning and reasoning about local traversability, as well as being able to utilize general knowledge about global geography, in the form of a roadmap, GPS, or other side information providing important cues. In this work, we propose an approach that integrates learning and planning, and can utilize side information such as schematic roadmaps, satellite maps and GPS coordinates as a planning heuristic, without relying on them being accurate. Our method, ViKiNG, incorporates a local traversability model, which looks at the robot's current camera observation and a potential subgoal to infer how easily that subgoal can be reached, as well as a heuristic model, which looks at overhead maps for hints and attempts to evaluate the appropriateness of these subgoals in order to reach the goal. These models are used by a heuristic planner to identify the best waypoint in order to reach the final destination. Our method performs no explicit geometric reconstruction, utilizing only a topological representation of the environment. Despite having never seen trajectories longer than 80 meters in its training dataset, ViKiNG can leverage its image-based learned controller and goal-directed heuristic to navigate to goals up to 3 kilometers away in previously unseen environments, and exhibit complex behaviors such as probing potential paths and backtracking when they are found to be non-viable. ViKiNG is also robust to unreliable maps and GPS, since the low-level controller ultimately makes decisions based on egocentric image observations, using maps only as planning heuristics. For videos of our experiments, please check out our project page https://sites.google.com/view/viking-release.

877
MITI: SLAM Benchmark for Laparoscopic Surgery
2022-02-23
We propose a new benchmark for evaluating stereoscopic visual-inertial computer vision algorithms (SLAM/ SfM/ 3D Reconstruction/ Visual-Inertial Odometry) for minimally invasive surgical (MIS) interventions in the abdomen. Our MITI Dataset available at [https://mediatum.ub.tum.de/1621941] provides all the necessary data by a complete recording of a handheld surgical intervention at Research Hospital Rechts der Isar of TUM. It contains multimodal sensor information from IMU, stereoscopic video, and infrared (IR) tracking as ground truth for evaluation. Furthermore, calibration for the stereoscope, accelerometer, magnetometer, the rigid transformations in the sensor setup, and time-offsets are available. We wisely chose a suitable intervention that contains very few cutting and tissue deformation and shows a full scan of the abdomen with a handheld camera such that it is ideal for testing SLAM algorithms. Intending to promote the progress of visual-inertial algorithms designed for MIS application, we hope that our clinical training dataset helps and enables researchers to enhance algorithms.

878
N-QGN: Navigation Map from a Monocular Camera using Quadtree Generating Networks
2022-02-24
Monocular depth estimation has been a popular area of research for several years, especially since self-supervised networks have shown increasingly good results in bridging the gap with supervised and stereo methods. However, these approaches focus their interest on dense 3D reconstruction and sometimes on tiny details that are superfluous for autonomous navigation. In this paper, we propose to address this issue by estimating the navigation map under a quadtree representation. The objective is to create an adaptive depth map prediction that only extract details that are essential for the obstacle avoidance. Other 3D space which leaves large room for navigation will be provided with approximate distance. Experiment on KITTI dataset shows that our method can significantly reduce the number of output information without major loss of accuracy.

879
On Monocular Depth Estimation and Uncertainty Quantification using Classification Approaches for Regression
2022-02-24
Monocular depth is important in many tasks, such as 3D reconstruction and autonomous driving. Deep learning based models achieve state-of-the-art performance in this field. A set of novel approaches for estimating monocular depth consists of transforming the regression task into a classification one. However, there is a lack of detailed descriptions and comparisons for Classification Approaches for Regression (CAR) in the community and no in-depth exploration of their potential for uncertainty estimation. To this end, this paper will introduce a taxonomy and summary of CAR approaches, a new uncertainty estimation solution for CAR, and a set of experiments on depth accuracy and uncertainty quantification for CAR-based models on KITTI dataset. The experiments reflect the differences in the portability of various CAR methods on two backbones. Meanwhile, the newly proposed method for uncertainty estimation can outperform the ensembling method with only one forward propagation.

880
RelMobNet: End-to-end relative camera pose estimation using a robust two-stage training
2022-02-25
Relative camera pose estimation, i.e. estimating the translation and rotation vectors using a pair of images taken in different locations, is an important part of systems in augmented reality and robotics. In this paper, we present an end-to-end relative camera pose estimation network using a siamese architecture that is independent of camera parameters. The network is trained using the Cambridge Landmarks data with four individual scene datasets and a dataset combining the four scenes. To improve generalization, we propose a novel two-stage training that alleviates the need of a hyperparameter to balance the translation and rotation loss scale. The proposed method is compared with one-stage training CNN-based methods such as RPNet and RCPNet and demonstrate that the proposed model improves translation vector estimation by 16.11%, 28.88%, and 52.27% on the Kings College, Old Hospital, and St Marys Church scenes, respectively. For proving texture invariance, we investigate the generalization of the proposed method augmenting the datasets to different scene styles, as ablation studies, using generative adversarial networks. Also, we present a qualitative assessment of epipolar lines of our network predictions and ground truth poses.

881
Large-Scale 3D Semantic Reconstruction for Automated Driving Vehicles with Adaptive Truncated Signed Distance Function
2022-02-28
The Large-scale 3D reconstruction, texturing and semantic mapping are nowadays widely used for automated driving vehicles, virtual reality and automatic data generation. However, most approaches are developed for RGB-D cameras with colored dense point clouds and not suitable for large-scale outdoor environments using sparse LiDAR point clouds. Since a 3D surface can be usually observed from multiple camera images with different view poses, an optimal image patch selection for the texturing and an optimal semantic class estimation for the semantic mapping are still challenging. To address these problems, we propose a novel 3D reconstruction, texturing and semantic mapping system using LiDAR and camera sensors. An Adaptive Truncated Signed Distance Function is introduced to describe surfaces implicitly, which can deal with different LiDAR point sparsities and improve model quality. The from this implicit function extracted triangle mesh map is then textured from a series of registered camera images by applying an optimal image patch selection strategy. Besides that, a Markov Random Field-based data fusion approach is proposed to estimate the optimal semantic class for each triangle mesh. Our approach is evaluated on a synthetic dataset, the KITTI dataset and a dataset recorded with our experimental vehicle. The results show that the 3D models generated using our approach are more accurate in comparison to using other state-of-the-art approaches. The texturing and semantic mapping achieve also very promising results.

882
3D photogrammetry point cloud segmentation using a model ensembling framework
2020-11-01
The US Army is paying increased attention to the development of rapid three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction using photogrammetry and unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) technologies for creating virtual environments and simulations in areas of interest. The ability of the intelligence community, mission commanders, and front-line soldiers to understand their deployed physical environment in advance is critical in the planning and rehearsal phases of any military operation. In order to achieve various simulation capabilities such as destruction operations, route planning, and explosive-standoff distances computation among others, reconstructed 3D data needs to be properly attributed. In this paper, we introduce a model ensembling framework for segmenting a 3D photogrammetry point cloud into top-level terrain elements (i.e., ground, human-made objects, and vegetation). Preprocessing and postprocessing methods were designed to overcome the data segmentation challenges posed by photogrammetric data-quality issues. A large UAV-based photogrammetric database was created for validation purposes. The designed model ensembling framework was compared with existing point cloud segmentation algorithms, and it outperformed other algorithms and achieved the best F1-score. Because the ultimate goal of segmenting a photogrammetric-generated point cloud is to create realistic virtual environments for simulation. Qualitative results for creating virtual environments using the segmented data are also discussed in this paper.

883
ERF: Explicit Radiance Field Reconstruction From Scratch
2022-02-28
We propose a novel explicit dense 3D reconstruction approach that processes a set of images of a scene with sensor poses and calibrations and estimates a photo-real digital model. One of the key innovations is that the underlying volumetric representation is completely explicit in contrast to neural network-based (implicit) alternatives. We encode scenes explicitly using clear and understandable mappings of optimization variables to scene geometry and their outgoing surface radiance. We represent them using hierarchical volumetric fields stored in a sparse voxel octree. Robustly reconstructing such a volumetric scene model with millions of unknown variables from registered scene images only is a highly non-convex and complex optimization problem. To this end, we employ stochastic gradient descent (Adam) which is steered by an inverse differentiable renderer. We demonstrate that our method can reconstruct models of high quality that are comparable to state-of-the-art implicit methods. Importantly, we do not use a sequential reconstruction pipeline where individual steps suffer from incomplete or unreliable information from previous stages, but start our optimizations from uniformed initial solutions with scene geometry and radiance that is far off from the ground truth. We show that our method is general and practical. It does not require a highly controlled lab setup for capturing, but allows for reconstructing scenes with a vast variety of objects, including challenging ones, such as outdoor plants or furry toys. Finally, our reconstructed scene models are versatile thanks to their explicit design. They can be edited interactively which is computationally too costly for implicit alternatives.

884
H4D: Human 4D Modeling by Learning Neural Compositional Representation
2022-03-02
Despite the impressive results achieved by deep learning based 3D reconstruction, the techniques of directly learning to model 4D human captures with detailed geometry have been less studied. This work presents a novel framework that can effectively learn a compact and compositional representation for dynamic human by exploiting the human body prior from the widely used SMPL parametric model. Particularly, our representation, named H4D, represents a dynamic 3D human over a temporal span with the SMPL parameters of shape and initial pose, and latent codes encoding motion and auxiliary information. A simple yet effective linear motion model is proposed to provide a rough and regularized motion estimation, followed by per-frame compensation for pose and geometry details with the residual encoded in the auxiliary code. Technically, we introduce novel GRU-based architectures to facilitate learning and improve the representation capability. Extensive experiments demonstrate our method is not only efficacy in recovering dynamic human with accurate motion and detailed geometry, but also amenable to various 4D human related tasks, including motion retargeting, motion completion and future prediction. Please check out the project page for video and code: https://boyanjiang.github.io/H4D/.

885
3D object reconstruction and 6D-pose estimation from 2D shape for robotic grasping of objects
2022-03-02
We propose a method for 3D object reconstruction and 6D-pose estimation from 2D images that uses knowledge about object shape as the primary key. In the proposed pipeline, recognition and labeling of objects in 2D images deliver 2D segment silhouettes that are compared with the 2D silhouettes of projections obtained from various views of a 3D model representing the recognized object class. By computing transformation parameters directly from the 2D images, the number of free parameters required during the registration process is reduced, making the approach feasible. Furthermore, 3D transformations and projective geometry are employed to arrive at a full 3D reconstruction of the object in camera space using a calibrated set up. Inclusion of a second camera allows resolving remaining ambiguities. The method is quantitatively evaluated using synthetic data and tested with real data, and additional results for the well-known Linemod data set are shown. In robot experiments, successful grasping of objects demonstrates its usability in real-world environments, and, where possible, a comparison with other methods is provided. The method is applicable to scenarios where 3D object models, e.g., CAD-models or point clouds, are available and precise pixel-wise segmentation maps of 2D images can be obtained. Different from other methods, the method does not use 3D depth for training, widening the domain of application.

886
Sketched RT3D: How to reconstruct billions of photons per second
2022-03-02
Single-photon light detection and ranging (lidar) captures depth and intensity information of a 3D scene. Reconstructing a scene from observed photons is a challenging task due to spurious detections associated with background illumination sources. To tackle this problem, there is a plethora of 3D reconstruction algorithms which exploit spatial regularity of natural scenes to provide stable reconstructions. However, most existing algorithms have computational and memory complexity proportional to the number of recorded photons. This complexity hinders their real-time deployment on modern lidar arrays which acquire billions of photons per second. Leveraging a recent lidar sketching framework, we show that it is possible to modify existing reconstruction algorithms such that they only require a small sketch of the photon information. In particular, we propose a sketched version of a recent state-of-the-art algorithm which uses point cloud denoisers to provide spatially regularized reconstructions. A series of experiments performed on real lidar datasets demonstrates a significant reduction of execution time and memory requirements, while achieving the same reconstruction performance than in the full data case.

887
ONIX: an X-ray deep-learning tool for 3D reconstructions from sparse views
2022-03-01
Three-dimensional (3D) X-ray imaging techniques like tomography and confocal microscopy are crucial for academic and industrial applications. These approaches access 3D information by scanning the sample with respect to the X-ray source. However, the scanning process limits the temporal resolution when studying dynamics and is not feasible for some applications, such as surgical guidance in medical applications. Alternatives to obtaining 3D information when scanning is not possible are X-ray stereoscopy and multi-projection imaging. However, these approaches suffer from limited volumetric information as they only acquire a small number of views or projections compared to traditional 3D scanning techniques. Here, we present ONIX (Optimized Neural Implicit X-ray imaging), a deep-learning algorithm capable of retrieving 3D objects with arbitrary large resolution from only a set of sparse projections. ONIX, although it does not have access to any volumetric information, outperforms current 3D reconstruction approaches because it includes the physics of image formation with X-rays, and it generalizes across different experiments over similar samples to overcome the limited volumetric information provided by sparse views. We demonstrate the capabilities of ONIX compared to state-of-the-art tomographic reconstruction algorithms by applying it to simulated and experimental datasets, where a maximum of eight projections are acquired. We anticipate that ONIX will become a crucial tool for the X-ray community by i) enabling the study of fast dynamics not possible today when implemented together with X-ray multi-projection imaging, and ii) enhancing the volumetric information and capabilities of X-ray stereoscopic imaging in medical applications.

888
CenterSnap: Single-Shot Multi-Object 3D Shape Reconstruction and Categorical 6D Pose and Size Estimation
2022-03-03
This paper studies the complex task of simultaneous multi-object 3D reconstruction, 6D pose and size estimation from a single-view RGB-D observation. In contrast to instance-level pose estimation, we focus on a more challenging problem where CAD models are not available at inference time. Existing approaches mainly follow a complex multi-stage pipeline which first localizes and detects each object instance in the image and then regresses to either their 3D meshes or 6D poses. These approaches suffer from high-computational cost and low performance in complex multi-object scenarios, where occlusions can be present. Hence, we present a simple one-stage approach to predict both the 3D shape and estimate the 6D pose and size jointly in a bounding-box free manner. In particular, our method treats object instances as spatial centers where each center denotes the complete shape of an object along with its 6D pose and size. Through this per-pixel representation, our approach can reconstruct in real-time (40 FPS) multiple novel object instances and predict their 6D pose and sizes in a single-forward pass. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that our approach significantly outperforms all shape completion and categorical 6D pose and size estimation baselines on multi-object ShapeNet and NOCS datasets respectively with a 12.6% absolute improvement in mAP for 6D pose for novel real-world object instances.

889
Capturing Shape Information with Multi-Scale Topological Loss Terms for 3D Reconstruction
2022-03-03
Reconstructing 3D objects from 2D images is both challenging for our brains and machine learning algorithms. To support this spatial reasoning task, contextual information about the overall shape of an object is critical. However, such information is not captured by established loss terms (e.g. Dice loss). We propose to complement geometrical shape information by including multi-scale topological features, such as connected components, cycles, and voids, in the reconstruction loss. Our method uses cubical complexes to calculate topological features of 3D volume data and employs an optimal transport distance to guide the reconstruction process. This topology-aware loss is fully differentiable, computationally efficient, and can be added to any neural network. We demonstrate the utility of our loss by incorporating it into SHAPR, a model for predicting the 3D cell shape of individual cells based on 2D microscopy images. Using a hybrid loss that leverages both geometrical and topological information of single objects to assess their shape, we find that topological information substantially improves the quality of reconstructions, thus highlighting its ability to extract more relevant features from image datasets.

890
Addressing the Shape-Radiance Ambiguity in View-Dependent Radiance Fields
2022-03-03
We present a method for handling view-dependent information in radiance fields to help with convergence and quality of 3D reconstruction. Radiance fields with view-dependence suffers from the so called shape-radiance ambiguity, which can lead to incorrect geometry given a high angular resolution of view-dependent colors. We propose the addition of a difference plane in front of each camera, with the purpose of separating view-dependent and Lambertian components during training. We also propose an additional step where we train, but do not store, a low-resolution view-dependent function that helps to isolate the surface if such a separation is proven difficult. These additions have a small impact on performance and memory usage but enables reconstruction of scenes with highly specular components without any other explicit handling of view-dependence such as Spherical Harmonics.

891
Object Pose Estimation using Mid-level Visual Representations
2022-03-02
This work proposes a novel pose estimation model for object categories that can be effectively transferred to previously unseen environments. The deep convolutional network models (CNN) for pose estimation are typically trained and evaluated on datasets specifically curated for object detection, pose estimation, or 3D reconstruction, which requires large amounts of training data. In this work, we propose a model for pose estimation that can be trained with small amount of data and is built on the top of generic mid-level representations \cite{taskonomy2018} (e.g. surface normal estimation and re-shading). These representations are trained on a large dataset without requiring pose and object annotations. Later on, the predictions are refined with a small CNN neural network that exploits object masks and silhouette retrieval. The presented approach achieves superior performance on the Pix3D dataset \cite{pix3d} and shows nearly 35\% improvement over the existing models when only 25\% of the training data is available. We show that the approach is favorable when it comes to generalization and transfer to novel environments. Towards this end, we introduce a new pose estimation benchmark for commonly encountered furniture categories on challenging Active Vision Dataset \cite{Ammirato2017ADF} and evaluated the models trained on the Pix3D dataset.

892
Human-Aware Object Placement for Visual Environment Reconstruction
2022-03-07
Humans are in constant contact with the world as they move through it and interact with it. This contact is a vital source of information for understanding 3D humans, 3D scenes, and the interactions between them. In fact, we demonstrate that these human-scene interactions (HSIs) can be leveraged to improve the 3D reconstruction of a scene from a monocular RGB video. Our key idea is that, as a person moves through a scene and interacts with it, we accumulate HSIs across multiple input images, and optimize the 3D scene to reconstruct a consistent, physically plausible and functional 3D scene layout. Our optimization-based approach exploits three types of HSI constraints: (1) humans that move in a scene are occluded or occlude objects, thus, defining the depth ordering of the objects, (2) humans move through free space and do not interpenetrate objects, (3) when humans and objects are in contact, the contact surfaces occupy the same place in space. Using these constraints in an optimization formulation across all observations, we significantly improve the 3D scene layout reconstruction. Furthermore, we show that our scene reconstruction can be used to refine the initial 3D human pose and shape (HPS) estimation. We evaluate the 3D scene layout reconstruction and HPS estimation qualitatively and quantitatively using the PROX and PiGraphs datasets. The code and data are available for research purposes at https://mover.is.tue.mpg.de/.

893
Highly Accurate Dichotomous Image Segmentation
2022-03-06
We present a systematic study on a new task called dichotomous image segmentation (DIS) , which aims to segment highly accurate objects from natural images. To this end, we collected the first large-scale DIS dataset, called DIS5K, which contains 5,470 high-resolution (e.g., 2K, 4K or larger) images covering camouflaged, salient, or meticulous objects in various backgrounds. DIS is annotated with extremely fine-grained labels. Besides, we introduce a simple intermediate supervision baseline (IS-Net) using both feature-level and mask-level guidance for DIS model training. IS-Net outperforms various cutting-edge baselines on the proposed DIS5K, making it a general self-learned supervision network that can facilitate future research in DIS. Further, we design a new metric called human correction efforts (HCE) which approximates the number of mouse clicking operations required to correct the false positives and false negatives. HCE is utilized to measure the gap between models and real-world applications and thus can complement existing metrics. Finally, we conduct the largest-scale benchmark, evaluating 16 representative segmentation models, providing a more insightful discussion regarding object complexities, and showing several potential applications (e.g., background removal, art design, 3D reconstruction). Hoping these efforts can open up promising directions for both academic and industries. Project page: https://xuebinqin.github.io/dis/index.html.

894
Generating 3D Bio-Printable Patches Using Wound Segmentation and Reconstruction to Treat Diabetic Foot Ulcers
2022-03-08
We introduce AiD Regen, a novel system that generates 3D wound models combining 2D semantic segmentation with 3D reconstruction so that they can be printed via 3D bio-printers during the surgery to treat diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs). AiD Regen seamlessly binds the full pipeline, which includes RGB-D image capturing, semantic segmentation, boundary-guided point-cloud processing, 3D model reconstruction, and 3D printable G-code generation, into a single system that can be used out of the box. We developed a multi-stage data preprocessing method to handle small and unbalanced DFU image datasets. AiD Regen's human-in-the-loop machine learning interface enables clinicians to not only create 3D regenerative patches with just a few touch interactions but also customize and confirm wound boundaries. As evidenced by our experiments, our model outperforms prior wound segmentation models and our reconstruction algorithm is capable of generating 3D wound models with compelling accuracy. We further conducted a case study on a real DFU patient and demonstrated the effectiveness of AiD Regen in treating DFU wounds.

895
Multi-sensor large-scale dataset for multi-view 3D reconstruction
2022-03-11
We present a new multi-sensor dataset for multi-view 3D surface reconstruction. It includes registered RGB and depth data from sensors of different resolutions and modalities: smartphones, Intel RealSense, Microsoft Kinect, industrial cameras, and structured-light scanner. The scenes are selected to emphasize a diverse set of material properties challenging for existing algorithms. We provide around 1.4 million images of 107 different scenes acquired from 100 viewing directions under 14 lighting conditions. We expect our dataset will be useful for evaluation and training of 3D reconstruction algorithms and for related tasks. The dataset is available at skoltech3d.appliedai.tech.

896
OcclusionFusion: Occlusion-aware Motion Estimation for Real-time Dynamic 3D Reconstruction
2022-03-15
RGBD-based real-time dynamic 3D reconstruction suffers from inaccurate inter-frame motion estimation as errors may accumulate with online tracking. This problem is even more severe for single-view-based systems due to strong occlusions. Based on these observations, we propose OcclusionFusion, a novel method to calculate occlusion-aware 3D motion to guide the reconstruction. In our technique, the motion of visible regions is first estimated and combined with temporal information to infer the motion of the occluded regions through an LSTM-involved graph neural network. Furthermore, our method computes the confidence of the estimated motion by modeling the network output with a probabilistic model, which alleviates untrustworthy motions and enables robust tracking. Experimental results on public datasets and our own recorded data show that our technique outperforms existing single-view-based real-time methods by a large margin. With the reduction of the motion errors, the proposed technique can handle long and challenging motion sequences. Please check out the project page for sequence results: https://wenbin-lin.github.io/OcclusionFusion.

897
VPFusion: Joint 3D Volume and Pixel-Aligned Feature Fusion for Single and Multi-view 3D Reconstruction
2022-03-14
We introduce a unified single and multi-view neural implicit 3D reconstruction framework VPFusion. VPFusion attains high-quality reconstruction using both - 3D feature volume to capture 3D-structure-aware context, and pixel-aligned image features to capture fine local detail. Existing approaches use RNN, feature pooling, or attention computed independently in each view for multi-view fusion. RNNs suffer from long-term memory loss and permutation variance, while feature pooling or independently computed attention leads to representation in each view being unaware of other views before the final pooling step. In contrast, we show improved multi-view feature fusion by establishing transformer-based pairwise view association. In particular, we propose a novel interleaved 3D reasoning and pairwise view association architecture for feature volume fusion across different views. Using this structure-aware and multi-view-aware feature volume, we show improved 3D reconstruction performance compared to existing methods. VPFusion improves the reconstruction quality further by also incorporating pixel-aligned local image features to capture fine detail. We verify the effectiveness of VPFusion on the ShapeNet and ModelNet datasets, where we outperform or perform on-par the state-of-the-art single and multi-view 3D shape reconstruction methods.

898
DiFT: Differentiable Differential Feature Transform for Multi-View Stereo
2022-03-16
We present a novel framework to automatically learn to transform the differential cues from a stack of images densely captured with a rotational motion into spatially discriminative and view-invariant per-pixel features at each view. These low-level features can be directly fed to any existing multi-view stereo technique for enhanced 3D reconstruction. The lighting condition during acquisition can also be jointly optimized in a differentiable fashion. We sample from a dozen of pre-scanned objects with a wide variety of geometry and reflectance to synthesize a large amount of high-quality training data. The effectiveness of our features is demonstrated on a number of challenging objects acquired with a lightstage, comparing favorably with state-of-the-art techniques. Finally, we explore additional applications of geometric detail visualization and computational stylization of complex appearance.

899
A Real World Dataset for Multi-view 3D Reconstruction
2022-03-22
We present a dataset of 998 3D models of everyday tabletop objects along with their 847,000 real world RGB and depth images. Accurate annotations of camera poses and object poses for each image are performed in a semi-automated fashion to facilitate the use of the dataset for myriad 3D applications like shape reconstruction, object pose estimation, shape retrieval etc. We primarily focus on learned multi-view 3D reconstruction due to the lack of appropriate real world benchmark for the task and demonstrate that our dataset can fill that gap. The entire annotated dataset along with the source code for the annotation tools and evaluation baselines is available at http://www.ocrtoc.org/3d-reconstruction.html.

900
-SfT: Shape-from-Template with a Physics-Based Deformation Model
2022-03-22
Shape-from-Template (SfT) methods estimate 3D surface deformations from a single monocular RGB camera while assuming a 3D state known in advance (a template). This is an important yet challenging problem due to the under-constrained nature of the monocular setting. Existing SfT techniques predominantly use geometric and simplified deformation models, which often limits their reconstruction abilities. In contrast to previous works, this paper proposes a new SfT approach explaining 2D observations through physical simulations accounting for forces and material properties. Our differentiable physics simulator regularises the surface evolution and optimises the material elastic properties such as bending coefficients, stretching stiffness and density. We use a differentiable renderer to minimise the dense reprojection error between the estimated 3D states and the input images and recover the deformation parameters using an adaptive gradient-based optimisation. For the evaluation, we record with an RGB-D camera challenging real surfaces exposed to physical forces with various material properties and textures. Our approach significantly reduces the 3D reconstruction error compared to multiple competing methods. For the source code and data, see https://4dqv.mpi-inf.mpg.de/phi-SfT/.

901
NeRFusion: Fusing Radiance Fields for Large-Scale Scene Reconstruction
2022-03-21
While NeRF has shown great success for neural reconstruction and rendering, its limited MLP capacity and long per-scene optimization times make it challenging to model large-scale indoor scenes. In contrast, classical 3D reconstruction methods can handle large-scale scenes but do not produce realistic renderings. We propose NeRFusion, a method that combines the advantages of NeRF and TSDF-based fusion techniques to achieve efficient large-scale reconstruction and photo-realistic rendering. We process the input image sequence to predict per-frame local radiance fields via direct network inference. These are then fused using a novel recurrent neural network that incrementally reconstructs a global, sparse scene representation in real-time at 22 fps. This global volume can be further fine-tuned to boost rendering quality. We demonstrate that NeRFusion achieves state-of-the-art quality on both large-scale indoor and small-scale object scenes, with substantially faster reconstruction than NeRF and other recent methods.

902
PlaneMVS: 3D Plane Reconstruction from Multi-View Stereo
2022-03-22
We present a novel framework named PlaneMVS for 3D plane reconstruction from multiple input views with known camera poses. Most previous learning-based plane reconstruction methods reconstruct 3D planes from single images, which highly rely on single-view regression and suffer from depth scale ambiguity. In contrast, we reconstruct 3D planes with a multi-view-stereo (MVS) pipeline that takes advantage of multi-view geometry. We decouple plane reconstruction into a semantic plane detection branch and a plane MVS branch. The semantic plane detection branch is based on a single-view plane detection framework but with differences. The plane MVS branch adopts a set of slanted plane hypotheses to replace conventional depth hypotheses to perform plane sweeping strategy and finally learns pixel-level plane parameters and its planar depth map. We present how the two branches are learned in a balanced way, and propose a soft-pooling loss to associate the outputs of the two branches and make them benefit from each other. Extensive experiments on various indoor datasets show that PlaneMVS significantly outperforms state-of-the-art (SOTA) single-view plane reconstruction methods on both plane detection and 3D geometry metrics. Our method even outperforms a set of SOTA learning-based MVS methods thanks to the learned plane priors. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work on 3D plane reconstruction within an end-to-end MVS framework.

903
RayTran: 3D pose estimation and shape reconstruction of multiple objects from videos with ray-traced transformers
2022-03-24
We propose a transformer-based neural network architecture for multi-object 3D reconstruction from RGB videos. It relies on two alternative ways to represent its knowledge: as a global 3D grid of features and an array of view-specific 2D grids. We progressively exchange information between the two with a dedicated bidirectional attention mechanism. We exploit knowledge about the image formation process to significantly sparsify the attention weight matrix, making our architecture feasible on current hardware, both in terms of memory and computation. We attach a DETR-style head on top of the 3D feature grid in order to detect the objects in the scene and to predict their 3D pose and 3D shape. Compared to previous methods, our architecture is single stage, end-to-end trainable, and it can reason holistically about a scene from multiple video frames without needing a brittle tracking step. We evaluate our method on the challenging Scan2CAD dataset, where we outperform (1) recent state-of-the-art methods for 3D object pose estimation from RGB videos; and (2) a strong alternative method combining Multi-view Stereo with RGB-D CAD alignment. We plan to release our source code.

904
Pop-Out Motion: 3D-Aware Image Deformation via Learning the Shape Laplacian
2022-03-29
We propose a framework that can deform an object in a 2D image as it exists in 3D space. Most existing methods for 3D-aware image manipulation are limited to (1) only changing the global scene information or depth, or (2) manipulating an object of specific categories. In this paper, we present a 3D-aware image deformation method with minimal restrictions on shape category and deformation type. While our framework leverages 2D-to-3D reconstruction, we argue that reconstruction is not sufficient for realistic deformations due to the vulnerability to topological errors. Thus, we propose to take a supervised learning-based approach to predict the shape Laplacian of the underlying volume of a 3D reconstruction represented as a point cloud. Given the deformation energy calculated using the predicted shape Laplacian and user-defined deformation handles (e.g., keypoints), we obtain bounded biharmonic weights to model plausible handle-based image deformation. In the experiments, we present our results of deforming 2D character and clothed human images. We also quantitatively show that our approach can produce more accurate deformation weights compared to alternative methods (i.e., mesh reconstruction and point cloud Laplacian methods).

905
3D Shape Reconstruction from 2D Images with Disentangled Attribute Flow
2022-03-29
Reconstructing 3D shape from a single 2D image is a challenging task, which needs to estimate the detailed 3D structures based on the semantic attributes from 2D image. So far, most of the previous methods still struggle to extract semantic attributes for 3D reconstruction task. Since the semantic attributes of a single image are usually implicit and entangled with each other, it is still challenging to reconstruct 3D shape with detailed semantic structures represented by the input image. To address this problem, we propose 3DAttriFlow to disentangle and extract semantic attributes through different semantic levels in the input images. These disentangled semantic attributes will be integrated into the 3D shape reconstruction process, which can provide definite guidance to the reconstruction of specific attribute on 3D shape. As a result, the 3D decoder can explicitly capture high-level semantic features at the bottom of the network, and utilize low-level features at the top of the network, which allows to reconstruct more accurate 3D shapes. Note that the explicit disentangling is learned without extra labels, where the only supervision used in our training is the input image and its corresponding 3D shape. Our comprehensive experiments on ShapeNet dataset demonstrate that 3DAttriFlow outperforms the state-of-the-art shape reconstruction methods, and we also validate its generalization ability on shape completion task.

906
DeepShadow: Neural Shape from Shadow
2022-03-28
This paper presents DeepShadow, a one-shot method for recovering the depth map and surface normals from photometric stereo shadow maps. Previous works that try to recover the surface normals from photometric stereo images treat cast shadows as a disturbance. We show that the self and cast shadows not only do not disturb 3D reconstruction, but can be used alone, as a strong learning signal, to recover the depth map and surface normals. We demonstrate that 3D reconstruction from shadows can even outperform shape-from-shading in certain cases. To the best of our knowledge, our method is the first to reconstruct 3D shape-from-shadows using neural networks. The method does not require any pre-training or expensive labeled data, and is optimized during inference time.

907
Towards Learning Neural Representations from Shadows
2022-03-29
We present a method that learns neural shadow fields which are neural scene representations that are only learnt from the shadows present in the scene. While traditional shape-from-shadow (SfS) algorithms reconstruct geometry from shadows, they assume a fixed scanning setup and fail to generalize to complex scenes. Neural rendering algorithms, on the other hand, rely on photometric consistency between RGB images, but largely ignore physical cues such as shadows, which have been shown to provide valuable information about the scene. We observe that shadows are a powerful cue that can constrain neural scene representations to learn SfS, and even outperform NeRF to reconstruct otherwise hidden geometry. We propose a graphics-inspired differentiable approach to render accurate shadows with volumetric rendering, predicting a shadow map that can be compared to the ground truth shadow. Even with just binary shadow maps, we show that neural rendering can localize the object and estimate coarse geometry. Our approach reveals that sparse cues in images can be used to estimate geometry using differentiable volumetric rendering. Moreover, our framework is highly generalizable and can work alongside existing 3D reconstruction techniques that otherwise only use photometric consistency.

908
RFNet-4D: Joint Object Reconstruction and Flow Estimation from 4D Point Clouds
2022-03-30
Object reconstruction from 3D point clouds has achieved impressive progress in the computer vision and computer graphics research field. However, reconstruction from time-varying point clouds (a.k.a. 4D point clouds) is generally overlooked. In this paper, we propose a new network architecture, namely RFNet-4D, that jointly reconstruct objects and their motion flows from 4D point clouds. The key insight is that simultaneously performing both tasks via learning spatial and temporal features from a sequence of point clouds can leverage individual tasks, leading to improved overall performance. To prove this ability, we design a temporal vector field learning module using unsupervised learning approach for flow estimation, leveraged by supervised learning of spatial structures for object reconstruction. Extensive experiments and analyses on benchmark dataset validated the effectiveness and efficiency of our method. As shown in experimental results, our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on both flow estimation and object reconstruction while performing much faster than existing methods in both training and inference. Our code and data are available at https://github.com/hkust-vgd/RFNet-4D

909
FIRe: Fast Inverse Rendering using Directional and Signed Distance Functions
2022-03-30
Neural 3D implicit representations learn priors that are useful for diverse applications, such as single- or multiple-view 3D reconstruction. A major downside of existing approaches while rendering an image is that they require evaluating the network multiple times per camera ray so that the high computational time forms a bottleneck for downstream applications. We address this problem by introducing a novel neural scene representation that we call the directional distance function (DDF). To this end, we learn a signed distance function (SDF) along with our DDF model to represent a class of shapes. Specifically, our DDF is defined on the unit sphere and predicts the distance to the surface along any given direction. Therefore, our DDF allows rendering images with just a single network evaluation per camera ray. Based on our DDF, we present a novel fast algorithm (FIRe) to reconstruct 3D shapes given a posed depth map. We evaluate our proposed method on 3D reconstruction from single-view depth images, where we empirically show that our algorithm reconstructs 3D shapes more accurately and it is more than 15 times faster (per iteration) than competing methods.

910
A Temporal Learning Approach to Inpainting Endoscopic Specularities and Its effect on Image Correspondence
2022-03-31
Video streams are utilised to guide minimally-invasive surgery and diagnostic procedures in a wide range of procedures, and many computer assisted techniques have been developed to automatically analyse them. These approaches can provide additional information to the surgeon such as lesion detection, instrument navigation, or anatomy 3D shape modeling. However, the necessary image features to recognise these patterns are not always reliably detected due to the presence of irregular light patterns such as specular highlight reflections. In this paper, we aim at removing specular highlights from endoscopic videos using machine learning. We propose using a temporal generative adversarial network (GAN) to inpaint the hidden anatomy under specularities, inferring its appearance spatially and from neighbouring frames where they are not present in the same location. This is achieved using in-vivo data of gastric endoscopy (Hyper-Kvasir) in a fully unsupervised manner that relies on automatic detection of specular highlights. System evaluations show significant improvements to traditional methods through direct comparison as well as other machine learning techniques through an ablation study that depicts the importance of the network's temporal and transfer learning components. The generalizability of our system to different surgical setups and procedures was also evaluated qualitatively on in-vivo data of gastric endoscopy and ex-vivo porcine data (SERV-CT, SCARED). We also assess the effect of our method in computer vision tasks that underpin 3D reconstruction and camera motion estimation, namely stereo disparity, optical flow, and sparse point feature matching. These are evaluated quantitatively and qualitatively and results show a positive effect of specular highlight inpainting on these tasks in a novel comprehensive analysis.

911
Online panoptic 3D reconstruction as a Linear Assignment Problem
2022-04-01
Real-time holistic scene understanding would allow machines to interpret their surrounding in a much more detailed manner than is currently possible. While panoptic image segmentation methods have brought image segmentation closer to this goal, this information has to be described relative to the 3D environment for the machine to be able to utilise it effectively. In this paper, we investigate methods for sequentially reconstructing static environments from panoptic image segmentations in 3D. We specifically target real-time operation: the algorithm must process data strictly online and be able to run at relatively fast frame rates. Additionally, the method should be scalable for environments large enough for practical applications. By applying a simple but powerful data-association algorithm, we outperform earlier similar works when operating purely online. Our method is also capable of reaching frame-rates high enough for real-time applications and is scalable to larger environments as well. Source code and further demonstrations are released to the public at: \url{https://tutvision.github.io/Online-Panoptic-3D/}

912
BNV-Fusion: Dense 3D Reconstruction using Bi-level Neural Volume Fusion
2022-04-03
Dense 3D reconstruction from a stream of depth images is the key to many mixed reality and robotic applications. Although methods based on Truncated Signed Distance Function (TSDF) Fusion have advanced the field over the years, the TSDF volume representation is confronted with striking a balance between the robustness to noisy measurements and maintaining the level of detail. We present Bi-level Neural Volume Fusion (BNV-Fusion), which leverages recent advances in neural implicit representations and neural rendering for dense 3D reconstruction. In order to incrementally integrate new depth maps into a global neural implicit representation, we propose a novel bi-level fusion strategy that considers both efficiency and reconstruction quality by design. We evaluate the proposed method on multiple datasets quantitatively and qualitatively, demonstrating a significant improvement over existing methods.

913
MonoTrack: Shuttle trajectory reconstruction from monocular badminton video
2022-04-04
Trajectory estimation is a fundamental component of racket sport analytics, as the trajectory contains information not only about the winning and losing of each point, but also how it was won or lost. In sports such as badminton, players benefit from knowing the full 3D trajectory, as the height of shuttlecock or ball provides valuable tactical information. Unfortunately, 3D reconstruction is a notoriously hard problem, and standard trajectory estimators can only track 2D pixel coordinates. In this work, we present the first complete end-to-end system for the extraction and segmentation of 3D shuttle trajectories from monocular badminton videos. Our system integrates badminton domain knowledge such as court dimension, shot placement, physical laws of motion, along with vision-based features such as player poses and shuttle tracking. We find that significant engineering efforts and model improvements are needed to make the overall system robust, and as a by-product of our work, improve state-of-the-art results on court recognition, 2D trajectory estimation, and hit recognition.

914
Pre-train, Self-train, Distill: A simple recipe for Supersizing 3D Reconstruction
2022-04-07
Our work learns a unified model for single-view 3D reconstruction of objects from hundreds of semantic categories. As a scalable alternative to direct 3D supervision, our work relies on segmented image collections for learning 3D of generic categories. Unlike prior works that use similar supervision but learn independent category-specific models from scratch, our approach of learning a unified model simplifies the training process while also allowing the model to benefit from the common structure across categories. Using image collections from standard recognition datasets, we show that our approach allows learning 3D inference for over 150 object categories. We evaluate using two datasets and qualitatively and quantitatively show that our unified reconstruction approach improves over prior category-specific reconstruction baselines. Our final 3D reconstruction model is also capable of zero-shot inference on images from unseen object categories and we empirically show that increasing the number of training categories improves the reconstruction quality.

915
Learning Online Multi-Sensor Depth Fusion
2022-04-07
Many hand-held or mixed reality devices are used with a single sensor for 3D reconstruction, although they often comprise multiple sensors. Multi-sensor depth fusion is able to substantially improve the robustness and accuracy of 3D reconstruction methods, but existing techniques are not robust enough to handle sensors which operate with diverse value ranges as well as noise and outlier statistics. To this end, we introduce SenFuNet, a depth fusion approach that learns sensor-specific noise and outlier statistics and combines the data streams of depth frames from different sensors in an online fashion. Our method fuses multi-sensor depth streams regardless of time synchronization and calibration and generalizes well with little training data. We conduct experiments with various sensor combinations on the real-world CoRBS and Scene3D datasets, as well as the Replica dataset. Experiments demonstrate that our fusion strategy outperforms traditional and recent online depth fusion approaches. In addition, the combination of multiple sensors yields more robust outlier handling and more precise surface reconstruction than the use of a single sensor. The source code and data are available at https://github.com/tfy14esa/SenFuNet.

916
AUV-Net: Learning Aligned UV Maps for Texture Transfer and Synthesis
2022-04-06
In this paper, we address the problem of texture representation for 3D shapes for the challenging and underexplored tasks of texture transfer and synthesis. Previous works either apply spherical texture maps which may lead to large distortions, or use continuous texture fields that yield smooth outputs lacking details. We argue that the traditional way of representing textures with images and linking them to a 3D mesh via UV mapping is more desirable, since synthesizing 2D images is a well-studied problem. We propose AUV-Net which learns to embed 3D surfaces into a 2D aligned UV space, by mapping the corresponding semantic parts of different 3D shapes to the same location in the UV space. As a result, textures are aligned across objects, and can thus be easily synthesized by generative models of images. Texture alignment is learned in an unsupervised manner by a simple yet effective texture alignment module, taking inspiration from traditional works on linear subspace learning. The learned UV mapping and aligned texture representations enable a variety of applications including texture transfer, texture synthesis, and textured single view 3D reconstruction. We conduct experiments on multiple datasets to demonstrate the effectiveness of our method. Project page: https://nv-tlabs.github.io/AUV-NET.

917
DAD-3DHeads: A Large-scale Dense, Accurate and Diverse Dataset for 3D Head Alignment from a Single Image
2022-04-07
We present DAD-3DHeads, a dense and diverse large-scale dataset, and a robust model for 3D Dense Head Alignment in the wild. It contains annotations of over 3.5K landmarks that accurately represent 3D head shape compared to the ground-truth scans. The data-driven model, DAD-3DNet, trained on our dataset, learns shape, expression, and pose parameters, and performs 3D reconstruction of a FLAME mesh. The model also incorporates a landmark prediction branch to take advantage of rich supervision and co-training of multiple related tasks. Experimentally, DAD-3DNet outperforms or is comparable to the state-of-the-art models in (i) 3D Head Pose Estimation on AFLW2000-3D and BIWI, (ii) 3D Face Shape Reconstruction on NoW and Feng, and (iii) 3D Dense Head Alignment and 3D Landmarks Estimation on DAD-3DHeads dataset. Finally, the diversity of DAD-3DHeads in camera angles, facial expressions, and occlusions enables a benchmark to study in-the-wild generalization and robustness to distribution shifts. The dataset webpage is https://p.farm/research/dad-3dheads.

918
Investigating Spherical Epipolar Rectification for Multi-View Stereo 3D Reconstruction
2022-04-08
Multi-view stereo (MVS) reconstruction is essential for creating 3D models. The approach involves applying epipolar rectification followed by dense matching for disparity estimation. However, existing approaches face challenges in applying dense matching for images with different viewpoints primarily due to large differences in object scale. In this paper, we propose a spherical model for epipolar rectification to minimize distortions caused by differences in principal rays. We evaluate the proposed approach using two aerial-based datasets consisting of multi-camera head systems. We show through qualitative and quantitative evaluation that the proposed approach performs better than frame-based epipolar correction by enhancing the completeness of point clouds by up to 4.05% while improving the accuracy by up to 10.23% using LiDAR data as ground truth.

919
Gravitationally Lensed Black Hole Emission Tomography
2022-04-07
Measurements from the Event Horizon Telescope enabled the visualization of light emission around a black hole for the first time. So far, these measurements have been used to recover a 2D image under the assumption that the emission field is static over the period of acquisition. In this work, we propose BH-NeRF, a novel tomography approach that leverages gravitational lensing to recover the continuous 3D emission field near a black hole. Compared to other 3D reconstruction or tomography settings, this task poses two significant challenges: first, rays near black holes follow curved paths dictated by general relativity, and second, we only observe measurements from a single viewpoint. Our method captures the unknown emission field using a continuous volumetric function parameterized by a coordinate-based neural network, and uses knowledge of Keplerian orbital dynamics to establish correspondence between 3D points over time. Together, these enable BH-NeRF to recover accurate 3D emission fields, even in challenging situations with sparse measurements and uncertain orbital dynamics. This work takes the first steps in showing how future measurements from the Event Horizon Telescope could be used to recover evolving 3D emission around the supermassive black hole in our Galactic center.

920
Deep Non-rigid Structure-from-Motion: A Sequence-to-Sequence Translation Perspective
2022-04-10
Directly regressing the non-rigid shape and camera pose from the individual 2D frame is ill-suited to the Non-Rigid Structure-from-Motion (NRSfM) problem. This frame-by-frame 3D reconstruction pipeline overlooks the inherent spatial-temporal nature of NRSfM, i.e., reconstructing the whole 3D sequence from the input 2D sequence. In this paper, we propose to model deep NRSfM from a sequence-to-sequence translation perspective, where the input 2D frame sequence is taken as a whole to reconstruct the deforming 3D non-rigid shape sequence. First, we apply a shape-motion predictor to estimate the initial non-rigid shape and camera motion from a single frame. Then we propose a context modeling module to model camera motions and complex non-rigid shapes. To tackle the difficulty in enforcing the global structure constraint within the deep framework, we propose to impose the union-of-subspace structure by replacing the self-expressiveness layer with multi-head attention and delayed regularizers, which enables end-to-end batch-wise training. Experimental results across different datasets such as Human3.6M, CMU Mocap and InterHand prove the superiority of our framework. The code will be made publicly available

921
What's in your hands? 3D Reconstruction of Generic Objects in Hands
2022-04-14
Our work aims to reconstruct hand-held objects given a single RGB image. In contrast to prior works that typically assume known 3D templates and reduce the problem to 3D pose estimation, our work reconstructs generic hand-held object without knowing their 3D templates. Our key insight is that hand articulation is highly predictive of the object shape, and we propose an approach that conditionally reconstructs the object based on the articulation and the visual input. Given an image depicting a hand-held object, we first use off-the-shelf systems to estimate the underlying hand pose and then infer the object shape in a normalized hand-centric coordinate frame. We parameterized the object by signed distance which are inferred by an implicit network which leverages the information from both visual feature and articulation-aware coordinates to process a query point. We perform experiments across three datasets and show that our method consistently outperforms baselines and is able to reconstruct a diverse set of objects. We analyze the benefits and robustness of explicit articulation conditioning and also show that this allows the hand pose estimation to further improve in test-time optimization.

922
Photorealistic Monocular 3D Reconstruction of Humans Wearing Clothing
2022-04-19
We present PHORHUM, a novel, end-to-end trainable, deep neural network methodology for photorealistic 3D human reconstruction given just a monocular RGB image. Our pixel-aligned method estimates detailed 3D geometry and, for the first time, the unshaded surface color together with the scene illumination. Observing that 3D supervision alone is not sufficient for high fidelity color reconstruction, we introduce patch-based rendering losses that enable reliable color reconstruction on visible parts of the human, and detailed and plausible color estimation for the non-visible parts. Moreover, our method specifically addresses methodological and practical limitations of prior work in terms of representing geometry, albedo, and illumination effects, in an end-to-end model where factors can be effectively disentangled. In extensive experiments, we demonstrate the versatility and robustness of our approach. Our state-of-the-art results validate the method qualitatively and for different metrics, for both geometric and color reconstruction.

923
Photometric single-view dense 3D reconstruction in endoscopy
2022-04-19
Visual SLAM inside the human body will open the way to computer-assisted navigation in endoscopy. However, due to space limitations, medical endoscopes only provide monocular images, leading to systems lacking true scale. In this paper, we exploit the controlled lighting in colonoscopy to achieve the first in-vivo 3D reconstruction of the human colon using photometric stereo on a calibrated monocular endoscope. Our method works in a real medical environment, providing both a suitable in-place calibration procedure and a depth estimation technique adapted to the colon's tubular geometry. We validate our method on simulated colonoscopies, obtaining a mean error of 7% on depth estimation, which is below 3 mm on average. Our qualitative results on the EndoMapper dataset show that the method is able to correctly estimate the colon shape in real human colonoscopies, paving the ground for true-scale monocular SLAM in endoscopy.

924
Share With Thy Neighbors: Single-View Reconstruction by Cross-Instance Consistency
2022-04-21
Approaches for single-view reconstruction typically rely on viewpoint annotations, silhouettes, the absence of background, multiple views of the same instance, a template shape, or symmetry. We avoid all such supervision and assumptions by explicitly leveraging the consistency between images of different object instances. As a result, our method can learn from large collections of unlabelled images depicting the same object category. Our main contributions are two ways for leveraging cross-instance consistency: (i) progressive conditioning, a training strategy to gradually specialize the model from category to instances in a curriculum learning fashion; and (ii) neighbor reconstruction, a loss enforcing consistency between instances having similar shape or texture. Also critical to the success of our method are: our structured autoencoding architecture decomposing an image into explicit shape, texture, pose, and background; an adapted formulation of differential rendering; and a new optimization scheme alternating between 3D and pose learning. We compare our approach, UNICORN, both on the diverse synthetic ShapeNet dataset - the classical benchmark for methods requiring multiple views as supervision - and on standard real-image benchmarks (Pascal3D+ Car, CUB) for which most methods require known templates and silhouette annotations. We also showcase applicability to more challenging real-world collections (CompCars, LSUN), where silhouettes are not available and images are not cropped around the object.

925
SmartPortraits: Depth Powered Handheld Smartphone Dataset of Human Portraits for State Estimation, Reconstruction and Synthesis
2022-04-21
We present a dataset of 1000 video sequences of human portraits recorded in real and uncontrolled conditions by using a handheld smartphone accompanied by an external high-quality depth camera. The collected dataset contains 200 people captured in different poses and locations and its main purpose is to bridge the gap between raw measurements obtained from a smartphone and downstream applications, such as state estimation, 3D reconstruction, view synthesis, etc. The sensors employed in data collection are the smartphone's camera and Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU), and an external Azure Kinect DK depth camera software synchronized with sub-millisecond precision to the smartphone system. During the recording, the smartphone flash is used to provide a periodic secondary source of lightning. Accurate mask of the foremost person is provided as well as its impact on the camera alignment accuracy. For evaluation purposes, we compare multiple state-of-the-art camera alignment methods by using a Motion Capture system. We provide a smartphone visual-inertial benchmark for portrait capturing, where we report results for multiple methods and motivate further use of the provided trajectories, available in the dataset, in view synthesis and 3D reconstruction tasks.

926
EMOCA: Emotion Driven Monocular Face Capture and Animation
2022-04-24
As 3D facial avatars become more widely used for communication, it is critical that they faithfully convey emotion. Unfortunately, the best recent methods that regress parametric 3D face models from monocular images are unable to capture the full spectrum of facial expression, such as subtle or extreme emotions. We find the standard reconstruction metrics used for training (landmark reprojection error, photometric error, and face recognition loss) are insufficient to capture high-fidelity expressions. The result is facial geometries that do not match the emotional content of the input image. We address this with EMOCA (EMOtion Capture and Animation), by introducing a novel deep perceptual emotion consistency loss during training, which helps ensure that the reconstructed 3D expression matches the expression depicted in the input image. While EMOCA achieves 3D reconstruction errors that are on par with the current best methods, it significantly outperforms them in terms of the quality of the reconstructed expression and the perceived emotional content. We also directly regress levels of valence and arousal and classify basic expressions from the estimated 3D face parameters. On the task of in-the-wild emotion recognition, our purely geometric approach is on par with the best image-based methods, highlighting the value of 3D geometry in analyzing human behavior. The model and code are publicly available at https://emoca.is.tue.mpg.de.

927
The Galactic 3D large-scale dust distribution via Gaussian process regression on spherical coordinates
2022-04-25
Knowing the Galactic 3D dust distribution is relevant for understanding many processes in the interstellar medium and for correcting many astronomical observations for dust absorption and emission. Here, we aim for a 3D reconstruction of the Galactic dust distribution with an increase in the number of meaningful resolution elements by orders of magnitude with respect to previous reconstructions, while taking advantage of the dust's spatial correlations to inform the dust map. We use iterative grid refinement to define a log-normal process in spherical coordinates. This log-normal process assumes a fixed correlation structure, which was inferred in an earlier reconstruction of Galactic dust. Our map is informed through 111 Million data points, combining data of PANSTARRS, 2MASS, Gaia DR2 and ALLWISE. The log-normal process is discretized to 122 Billion degrees of freedom, a factor of 400 more than our previous map. We derive the most probable posterior map and an uncertainty estimate using natural gradient descent and the Fisher-Laplace approximation. The dust reconstruction covers a quarter of the volume of our Galaxy, with a maximum coordinate distance of $16\,\text{kpc}$, and meaningful information can be found up to at distances of $4\,$kpc, still improving upon our earlier map by a factor of 5 in maximal distance, of $900$ in volume, and of about eighteen in angular grid resolution. Unfortunately, the maximum posterior approach chosen to make the reconstruction computational affordable introduces artifacts and reduces the accuracy of our uncertainty estimate. Despite of the apparent limitations of the presented 3D dust map, a good part of the reconstructed structures are confirmed by independent maser observations. Thus, the map is a step towards reliable 3D Galactic cartography and already can serve for a number of tasks, if used with care.

928
3D Magic Mirror: Clothing Reconstruction from a Single Image via a Causal Perspective
2022-04-27
This research aims to study a self-supervised 3D clothing reconstruction method, which recovers the geometry shape and texture of human clothing from a single image. Compared with existing methods, we observe that three primary challenges remain: (1) 3D ground-truth meshes of clothing are usually inaccessible due to annotation difficulties and time costs; (2) Conventional template-based methods are limited to modeling non-rigid objects, e.g., handbags and dresses, which are common in fashion images; (3) The inherent ambiguity compromises the model training, such as the dilemma between a large shape with a remote camera or a small shape with a close camera. In an attempt to address the above limitations, we propose a causality-aware self-supervised learning method to adaptively reconstruct 3D non-rigid objects from 2D images without 3D annotations. In particular, to solve the inherent ambiguity among four implicit variables, i.e., camera position, shape, texture, and illumination, we introduce an explainable structural causal map (SCM) to build our model. The proposed model structure follows the spirit of the causal map, which explicitly considers the prior template in the camera estimation and shape prediction. When optimization, the causality intervention tool, i.e., two expectation-maximization loops, is deeply embedded in our algorithm to (1) disentangle four encoders and (2) facilitate the prior template. Extensive experiments on two 2D fashion benchmarks (ATR and Market-HQ) show that the proposed method could yield high-fidelity 3D reconstruction. Furthermore, we also verify the scalability of the proposed method on a fine-grained bird dataset, i.e., CUB. The code is available at https://github.com/layumi/ 3D-Magic-Mirror .

929
Power Bundle Adjustment for Large-Scale 3D Reconstruction
2022-04-27
We introduce Power Bundle Adjustment as an expansion type algorithm for solving large-scale bundle adjustment problems. It is based on the power series expansion of the inverse Schur complement and constitutes a new family of solvers that we call inverse expansion methods. We theoretically justify the use of power series and we prove the convergence of our approach. Using the real-world BAL dataset we show that the proposed solver challenges the state-of-the-art iterative methods and significantly accelerates the solution of the normal equation, even for reaching a very high accuracy. This easy-to-implement solver can also complement a recently presented distributed bundle adjustment framework. We demonstrate that employing the proposed Power Bundle Adjustment as a sub-problem solver significantly improves speed and accuracy of the distributed optimization.

930
ARCTIC: A Dataset for Dexterous Bimanual Hand-Object Manipulation
2022-04-28
Humans intuitively understand that inanimate objects do not move by themselves, but that state changes are typically caused by human manipulation (e.g., the opening of a book). This is not yet the case for machines. In part this is because there exist no datasets with ground-truth 3D annotations for the study of physically consistent and synchronised motion of hands and articulated objects. To this end, we introduce ARCTIC -- a dataset of two hands that dexterously manipulate objects, containing 2.1M video frames paired with accurate 3D hand and object meshes and detailed, dynamic contact information. It contains bi-manual articulation of objects such as scissors or laptops, where hand poses and object states evolve jointly in time. We propose two novel articulated hand-object interaction tasks: (1) Consistent motion reconstruction: Given a monocular video, the goal is to reconstruct two hands and articulated objects in 3D, so that their motions are spatio-temporally consistent. (2) Interaction field estimation: Dense relative hand-object distances must be estimated from images. We introduce two baselines ArcticNet and InterField, respectively and evaluate them qualitatively and quantitatively on ARCTIC. Our code and data are available at https://arctic.is.tue.mpg.de.

931
GenDR: A Generalized Differentiable Renderer
2022-04-29
In this work, we present and study a generalized family of differentiable renderers. We discuss from scratch which components are necessary for differentiable rendering and formalize the requirements for each component. We instantiate our general differentiable renderer, which generalizes existing differentiable renderers like SoftRas and DIB-R, with an array of different smoothing distributions to cover a large spectrum of reasonable settings. We evaluate an array of differentiable renderer instantiations on the popular ShapeNet 3D reconstruction benchmark and analyze the implications of our results. Surprisingly, the simple uniform distribution yields the best overall results when averaged over 13 classes; in general, however, the optimal choice of distribution heavily depends on the task.

932
Monocular 3D Fingerprint Reconstruction and Unwarping
2022-05-02
Compared with contact-based fingerprint acquisition techniques, contactless acquisition has the advantages of less skin distortion, larger fingerprint area, and hygienic acquisition. However, perspective distortion is a challenge in contactless fingerprint recognition, which changes ridge orientation, frequency, and minutiae location, and thus causes degraded recognition accuracy. We propose a learning based shape from texture algorithm to reconstruct a 3D finger shape from a single image and unwarp the raw image to suppress perspective distortion. Experimental results on contactless fingerprint databases show that the proposed method has high 3D reconstruction accuracy. Matching experiments on contactless-contact and contactless-contactless matching prove that the proposed method improves matching accuracy.

933
Multi-view Geometry: Correspondences Refinement Based on Algebraic Properties
2022-05-03
Correspondences estimation or feature matching is a key step in the image-based 3D reconstruction problem. In this paper, we propose two algebraic properties for correspondences. The first is a rank deficient matrix construct from the correspondences of at least nine key-points on two images (two-view correspondences) and the second is also another rank deficient matrix built from the other correspondences of six key-points on at least five images (multi-view correspondences). To our knowledge, there are no theoretical results for multi-view correspondences prior to this paper. To obtain accurate correspondences, multi-view correspondences seem to be more useful than two-view correspondences. From these two algebraic properties, we propose an refinement algorithm for correspondences. This algorithm is a combination of correspondences refinement, outliers recognition and missing key-points recovery. Real experiments from the project of reconstructing Buddha statue show that the proposed refinement algorithm can reduce the average error from 77 pixels to 55 pixels on the correspondences estimation. This drop is substantial and it validates our results.

934
Neural 3D Scene Reconstruction with the Manhattan-world Assumption
2022-05-05
This paper addresses the challenge of reconstructing 3D indoor scenes from multi-view images. Many previous works have shown impressive reconstruction results on textured objects, but they still have difficulty in handling low-textured planar regions, which are common in indoor scenes. An approach to solving this issue is to incorporate planer constraints into the depth map estimation in multi-view stereo-based methods, but the per-view plane estimation and depth optimization lack both efficiency and multi-view consistency. In this work, we show that the planar constraints can be conveniently integrated into the recent implicit neural representation-based reconstruction methods. Specifically, we use an MLP network to represent the signed distance function as the scene geometry. Based on the Manhattan-world assumption, planar constraints are employed to regularize the geometry in floor and wall regions predicted by a 2D semantic segmentation network. To resolve the inaccurate segmentation, we encode the semantics of 3D points with another MLP and design a novel loss that jointly optimizes the scene geometry and semantics in 3D space. Experiments on ScanNet and 7-Scenes datasets show that the proposed method outperforms previous methods by a large margin on 3D reconstruction quality. The code is available at https://zju3dv.github.io/manhattan_sdf.

935
TomoSAR-ALISTA: Efficient TomoSAR Imaging via Deep Unfolded Network
2022-05-05
Synthetic aperture radar (SAR) tomography (TomoSAR) has attracted remarkable interest for its ability in achieving three-dimensional reconstruction along the elevation direction from multiple observations. In recent years, compressed sensing (CS) technique has been introduced into TomoSAR considering for its super-resolution ability with limited samples. Whereas, the CS-based methods suffer from several drawbacks, including weak noise resistance, high computational complexity and complex parameter fine-tuning. Among the different CS algorithms, iterative soft-thresholding algorithm (ISTA) is widely used as a robust reconstruction approach, however, the parameters in the ISTA algorithm are manually chosen, which usually requires a time-consuming fine-tuning process to achieve the best performance. Aiming at efficient TomoSAR imaging, a novel sparse unfolding network named analytic learned ISTA (ALISTA) is proposed towards the TomoSAR imaging problem in this paper, and the key parameters of ISTA are learned from training data via deep learning to avoid complex parameter fine-tuning and significantly relieves the training burden. In addition, experiments verify that it is feasible to use traditional CS algorithms as training labels, which provides a tangible supervised training method to achieve better 3D reconstruction performance even in the absence of labeled data in real applications.

936
Multi-view Point Cloud Registration based on Evolutionary Multitasking with Bi-Channel Knowledge Sharing Mechanism
2022-05-06
Multi-view point cloud registration is fundamental in 3D reconstruction. Since there are close connections between point clouds captured from different viewpoints, registration performance can be enhanced if these connections be harnessed properly. Therefore, this paper models the registration problem as multi-task optimization, and proposes a novel bi-channel knowledge sharing mechanism for effective and efficient problem solving. The modeling of multi-view point cloud registration as multi-task optimization are twofold. By simultaneously considering the local accuracy of two point clouds as well as the global consistency posed by all the point clouds involved, a fitness function with an adaptive threshold is derived. Also a framework of the co-evolutionary search process is defined for the concurrent optimization of multiple fitness functions belonging to related tasks. To enhance solution quality and convergence speed, the proposed bi-channel knowledge sharing mechanism plays its role. The intra-task knowledge sharing introduces aiding tasks that are much simpler to solve, and useful information is shared across aiding tasks and the original tasks, accelerating the search process. The inter-task knowledge sharing explores commonalities buried among the original tasks, aiming to prevent tasks from getting stuck to local optima. Comprehensive experiments conducted on model object as well as scene point clouds show the efficacy of the proposed method.

937
Single-view 3D Body and Cloth Reconstruction under Complex Poses
2022-05-09
Recent advances in 3D human shape reconstruction from single images have shown impressive results, leveraging on deep networks that model the so-called implicit function to learn the occupancy status of arbitrarily dense 3D points in space. However, while current algorithms based on this paradigm, like PiFuHD, are able to estimate accurate geometry of the human shape and clothes, they require high-resolution input images and are not able to capture complex body poses. Most training and evaluation is performed on 1k-resolution images of humans standing in front of the camera under neutral body poses. In this paper, we leverage publicly available data to extend existing implicit function-based models to deal with images of humans that can have arbitrary poses and self-occluded limbs. We argue that the representation power of the implicit function is not sufficient to simultaneously model details of the geometry and of the body pose. We, therefore, propose a coarse-to-fine approach in which we first learn an implicit function that maps the input image to a 3D body shape with a low level of detail, but which correctly fits the underlying human pose, despite its complexity. We then learn a displacement map, conditioned on the smoothed surface and on the input image, which encodes the high-frequency details of the clothes and body. In the experimental section, we show that this coarse-to-fine strategy represents a very good trade-off between shape detail and pose correctness, comparing favorably to the most recent state-of-the-art approaches. Our code will be made publicly available.

938
A Review on Viewpoints and Path-planning for UAV-based 3D Reconstruction
2022-05-07
Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are widely used platforms to carry data capturing sensors for various applications. The reason for this success can be found in many aspects: the high maneuverability of the UAVs, the capability of performing autonomous data acquisition, flying at different heights, and the possibility to reach almost any vantage point. The selection of appropriate viewpoints and planning the optimum trajectories of UAVs is an emerging topic that aims at increasing the automation, efficiency and reliability of the data capturing process to achieve a dataset with desired quality. On the other hand, 3D reconstruction using the data captured by UAVs is also attracting attention in research and industry. This review paper investigates a wide range of model-free and model-based algorithms for viewpoint and path planning for 3D reconstruction of large-scale objects. The analyzed approaches are limited to those that employ a single-UAV as a data capturing platform for outdoor 3D reconstruction purposes. In addition to discussing the evaluation strategies, this paper also highlights the innovations and limitations of the investigated approaches. It concludes with a critical analysis of the existing challenges and future research perspectives.

939
Deep Depth Completion from Extremely Sparse Data: A Survey
2022-05-11
Depth completion aims at predicting dense pixel-wise depth from an extremely sparse map captured from a depth sensor, e.g., LiDARs. It plays an essential role in various applications such as autonomous driving, 3D reconstruction, augmented reality, and robot navigation. Recent successes on the task have been demonstrated and dominated by deep learning based solutions. In this article, for the first time, we provide a comprehensive literature review that helps readers better grasp the research trends and clearly understand the current advances. We investigate the related studies from the design aspects of network architectures, loss functions, benchmark datasets, and learning strategies with a proposal of a novel taxonomy that categorizes existing methods. Besides, we present a quantitative comparison of model performance on three widely used benchmarks, including indoor and outdoor datasets. Finally, we discuss the challenges of prior works and provide readers with some insights for future research directions.

940
Reconstructing 3D Model from Single-View Sketch with Deep Neural Network
2021-04-27
In this paper, we introduce a novel 3D shape reconstruction method from a single-view sketch image based on a deep neural network. The proposed pipeline is mainly composed of three modules. The first module is sketch component segmentation based on multimodal DNN fusion and is used to segment a given sketch into a series of basic units and build a transformation template by the knots between them. The second module is a nonlinear transformation network for multifarious sketch generation with the obtained transformation template. It creates the transformation representation of a sketch by extracting the shape features of an input sketch and transformation template samples. The third module is deep 3D shape reconstruction using multifarious sketches, which takes the obtained sketches as input to reconstruct 3D shapes with a generative model. It fuses and optimizes features of multiple views and thus is more likely to generate high-quality 3D shapes. To evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed method, we conduct extensive experiments on a public 3D reconstruction dataset. The results demonstrate that our model can achieve better reconstruction performance than peer methods. Specifically, compared to the state-of-the-art method, the proposed model achieves a performance gain in terms of the five evaluation metrics by an average of 25.5% on the man-made model dataset and 23.4% on the character object dataset using synthetic sketches and by an average of 31.8% and 29.5% on the two datasets, respectively, using human drawing sketches.

941
Topologically-Aware Deformation Fields for Single-View 3D Reconstruction
2022-05-12
We present a framework for learning 3D object shapes and dense cross-object 3D correspondences from just an unaligned category-specific image collection. The 3D shapes are generated implicitly as deformations to a category-specific signed distance field and are learned in an unsupervised manner solely from unaligned image collections and their poses without any 3D supervision. Generally, image collections on the internet contain several intra-category geometric and topological variations, for example, different chairs can have different topologies, which makes the task of joint shape and correspondence estimation much more challenging. Because of this, prior works either focus on learning each 3D object shape individually without modeling cross-instance correspondences or perform joint shape and correspondence estimation on categories with minimal intra-category topological variations. We overcome these restrictions by learning a topologically-aware implicit deformation field that maps a 3D point in the object space to a higher dimensional point in the category-specific canonical space. At inference time, given a single image, we reconstruct the underlying 3D shape by first implicitly deforming each 3D point in the object space to the learned category-specific canonical space using the topologically-aware deformation field and then reconstructing the 3D shape as a canonical signed distance field. Both canonical shape and deformation field are learned end-to-end in an inverse-graphics fashion using a learned recurrent ray marcher (SRN) as a differentiable rendering module. Our approach, dubbed TARS, achieves state-of-the-art reconstruction fidelity on several datasets: ShapeNet, Pascal3D+, CUB, and Pix3D chairs. Result videos and code at https://shivamduggal4.github.io/tars-3D/

942
Quadtree-accelerated Real-time Monocular Dense Mapping
2018-10-05
In this paper, we propose a novel mapping method for robotic navigation. High-quality dense depth maps are estimated and fused into 3D reconstructions in real-time using a single localized moving camera. The quadtree structure of the intensity image is used to reduce the computation burden by estimating the depth map in multiple resolutions. Both the quadtree-based pixel selection and the dynamic belief propagation are proposed to speed up the mapping process: pixels are selected and optimized with the computation resource according to their levels in the quadtree. Solved depth estimations are further interpolated and fused temporally into full resolution depth maps and fused into dense 3D maps using truncated signed distance function (TSDF). We compare our method with other state-of-the-art methods using the public datasets. Onboard UAV autonomous flight is also used to further prove the usability and efficiency of our method on portable devices. For the benefit of the community, the implementation is also released as open source at https://github.com/HKUST-Aerial-Robotics/open_quadtree_mapping.

943
Novel Light Field Imaging Device with Enhanced Light Collection for Cold Atom Clouds
2022-05-23
We present a light field imaging system that captures multiple views of an object with a single shot. The system is designed to maximize the total light collection by accepting a larger solid angle of light than a conventional lens with equivalent depth of field. This is achieved by populating a plane of virtual objects using mirrors and fully utilizing the available field of view and depth of field. Simulation results demonstrate that this design is capable of single-shot tomography of objects of size $\mathcal{O}$(1 mm$^3$), reconstructing the 3-dimensional (3D) distribution and features not accessible from any single view angle in isolation. In particular, for atom clouds used in atom interferometry experiments, the system can reconstruct 3D fringe patterns with size $\mathcal{O}$(100 $\mu$m). We also demonstrate this system with a 3D-printed prototype. The prototype is used to take images of $\mathcal{O}$(1 mm$^{3}$) sized objects, and 3D reconstruction algorithms running on a single-shot image successfully reconstruct $\mathcal{O}$(100 $\mu$m) internal features. The prototype also shows that the system can be built with 3D printing technology and hence can be deployed quickly and cost-effectively in experiments with needs for enhanced light collection or 3D reconstruction. Imaging of cold atom clouds in atom interferometry is a key application of this new type of imaging device where enhanced light collection, high depth of field, and 3D tomographic reconstruction can provide new handles to characterize the atom clouds.

944
Mobile3DRecon: Real-time Monocular 3D Reconstruction on a Mobile Phone
2020-07-21
We present a real-time monocular 3D reconstruction system on a mobile phone, called Mobile3DRecon. Using an embedded monocular camera, our system provides an online mesh generation capability on back end together with real-time 6DoF pose tracking on front end for users to achieve realistic AR effects and interactions on mobile phones. Unlike most existing state-of-the-art systems which produce only point cloud based 3D models online or surface mesh offline, we propose a novel online incremental mesh generation approach to achieve fast online dense surface mesh reconstruction to satisfy the demand of real-time AR applications. For each keyframe of 6DoF tracking, we perform a robust monocular depth estimation, with a multi-view semi-global matching method followed by a depth refinement post-processing. The proposed mesh generation module incrementally fuses each estimated keyframe depth map to an online dense surface mesh, which is useful for achieving realistic AR effects such as occlusions and collisions. We verify our real-time reconstruction results on two mid-range mobile platforms. The experiments with quantitative and qualitative evaluation demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed monocular 3D reconstruction system, which can handle the occlusions and collisions between virtual objects and real scenes to achieve realistic AR effects.

945
Neural 3D Reconstruction in the Wild
2022-05-25
We are witnessing an explosion of neural implicit representations in computer vision and graphics. Their applicability has recently expanded beyond tasks such as shape generation and image-based rendering to the fundamental problem of image-based 3D reconstruction. However, existing methods typically assume constrained 3D environments with constant illumination captured by a small set of roughly uniformly distributed cameras. We introduce a new method that enables efficient and accurate surface reconstruction from Internet photo collections in the presence of varying illumination. To achieve this, we propose a hybrid voxel- and surface-guided sampling technique that allows for more efficient ray sampling around surfaces and leads to significant improvements in reconstruction quality. Further, we present a new benchmark and protocol for evaluating reconstruction performance on such in-the-wild scenes. We perform extensive experiments, demonstrating that our approach surpasses both classical and neural reconstruction methods on a wide variety of metrics.

946
3D-C2FT: Coarse-to-fine Transformer for Multi-view 3D Reconstruction
2022-05-29
Recently, the transformer model has been successfully employed for the multi-view 3D reconstruction problem. However, challenges remain on designing an attention mechanism to explore the multiview features and exploit their relations for reinforcing the encoding-decoding modules. This paper proposes a new model, namely 3D coarse-to-fine transformer (3D-C2FT), by introducing a novel coarse-to-fine(C2F) attention mechanism for encoding multi-view features and rectifying defective 3D objects. C2F attention mechanism enables the model to learn multi-view information flow and synthesize 3D surface correction in a coarse to fine-grained manner. The proposed model is evaluated by ShapeNet and Multi-view Real-life datasets. Experimental results show that 3D-C2FT achieves notable results and outperforms several competing models on these datasets.

947
Decomposing NeRF for Editing via Feature Field Distillation
2022-05-31
Emerging neural radiance fields (NeRF) are a promising scene representation for computer graphics, enabling high-quality 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis from image observations. However, editing a scene represented by a NeRF is challenging, as the underlying connectionist representations such as MLPs or voxel grids are not object-centric or compositional. In particular, it has been difficult to selectively edit specific regions or objects. In this work, we tackle the problem of semantic scene decomposition of NeRFs to enable query-based local editing of the represented 3D scenes. We propose to distill the knowledge of off-the-shelf, self-supervised 2D image feature extractors such as CLIP-LSeg or DINO into a 3D feature field optimized in parallel to the radiance field. Given a user-specified query of various modalities such as text, an image patch, or a point-and-click selection, 3D feature fields semantically decompose 3D space without the need for re-training and enable us to semantically select and edit regions in the radiance field. Our experiments validate that the distilled feature fields (DFFs) can transfer recent progress in 2D vision and language foundation models to 3D scene representations, enabling convincing 3D segmentation and selective editing of emerging neural graphics representations.

948
MonoSDF: Exploring Monocular Geometric Cues for Neural Implicit Surface Reconstruction
2022-06-01
In recent years, neural implicit surface reconstruction methods have become popular for multi-view 3D reconstruction. In contrast to traditional multi-view stereo methods, these approaches tend to produce smoother and more complete reconstructions due to the inductive smoothness bias of neural networks. State-of-the-art neural implicit methods allow for high-quality reconstructions of simple scenes from many input views. Yet, their performance drops significantly for larger and more complex scenes and scenes captured from sparse viewpoints. This is caused primarily by the inherent ambiguity in the RGB reconstruction loss that does not provide enough constraints, in particular in less-observed and textureless areas. Motivated by recent advances in the area of monocular geometry prediction, we systematically explore the utility these cues provide for improving neural implicit surface reconstruction. We demonstrate that depth and normal cues, predicted by general-purpose monocular estimators, significantly improve reconstruction quality and optimization time. Further, we analyse and investigate multiple design choices for representing neural implicit surfaces, ranging from monolithic MLP models over single-grid to multi-resolution grid representations. We observe that geometric monocular priors improve performance both for small-scale single-object as well as large-scale multi-object scenes, independent of the choice of representation.

949
CD$^2$: Fine-grained 3D Mesh Reconstruction With Twice Chamfer Distance
2022-06-01
Monocular 3D reconstruction is to reconstruct the shape of object and its other information from a single RGB image. In 3D reconstruction, polygon mesh, with detailed surface information and low computational cost, is the most prevalent expression form obtained from deep learning models. However, the state-of-the-art schemes fail to directly generate well-structured meshes, and we identify that most meshes have severe Vertices Clustering (VC) and Illegal Twist (IT) problems. By analyzing the mesh deformation process, we pinpoint that the inappropriate usage of Chamfer Distance (CD) loss is a root cause of VC and IT problems in deep learning model. In this paper, we initially demonstrate these two problems induced by CD loss with visual examples and quantitative analyses. Then, we propose a fine-grained reconstruction method CD$^2$ by employing Chamfer distance twice to perform a plausible and adaptive deformation. Extensive experiments on two 3D datasets and comparisons with five latest schemes demonstrate that our CD$^2$ directly generates a well-structured mesh and outperforms others in terms of several quantitative metrics.

950
Learning Soft Estimator of Keypoint Scale and Orientation With Probabilistic Covariant Loss
2022-01-01
    Estimating keypoint scale and orientation is crucial to extracting invariant features under significant geometric changes. Recently, the estimators based on self-supervised learning have been designed to adapt to complex imaging conditions. Such learning-based estimators generally predict a single scalar for the keypoint scale or orientation, called hard estimators. However, hard estimators are difficult to handle the local patches containing structures of different objects or multiple edges. In this paper, a Soft Self-Supervised Estimator (S3Esti) is proposed to overcome this problem by learning to predict multiple scales and orientations. S3Esti involves three core factors. First, the estimator is constructed to predict the discrete distributions of scales and orientations. The elements with high confidence will be kept as the final scales and orientations. Second, a probabilistic covariant loss is proposed to improve the consistency of the scale and orientation distributions under different transformations. Third, an optimization algorithm is designed to minimize the loss function, whose convergence is proved in theory. When combined with different keypoint extraction models, S3Esti generally improves over 50% accuracy in image matching tasks under significant viewpoint changes. In the 3D reconstruction task, S3Esti decreases more than 10% reprojection error and improves the number of registered images.    

951
Using 3D Topological Connectivity for Ghost Particle Reduction in Flow Reconstruction
2022-01-01
    Volumetric flow velocimetry for experimental fluid dynamics relies primarily on the 3D reconstruction of point objects, which are the detected positions of tracer particles identified in images obtained by a multi-camera setup. By assuming that the particles accurately follow the observed flow, their displacement over a known time interval is a measure of the local flow velocity. The number of particles imaged in a 1 Megapixel image is typically in the order of 1e3-1e4, resulting in a large number of consistent but incorrect reconstructions (no real particle in 3D), that must be eliminated through tracking or intensity constraints. In an alternative method, 3D Particle Streak Velocimetry (3D-PSV), the exposure time is increased, and the particles' pathlines are imaged as "streaks". We treat these streaks (a) as connected endpoints and (b) as conic section segments and develop a theoretical model that describes the mechanisms of 3D ambiguity generation and shows that streaks can drastically reduce reconstruction ambiguities. Moreover, we propose a method for simultaneously estimating these short, low-curvature conic section segments and their 3D position from multiple camera views. Our results validate the theory, and the streak and conic section reconstruction method produces far fewer ambiguities than simple particle reconstruction, outperforming current state-of-the-art particle tracking software on the evaluated cases.    

952
Enhancing Face Recognition With Self-Supervised 3D Reconstruction
2022-01-01
    Attributed to both the development of deep networks and abundant data, automatic face recognition (FR) has quickly reached human-level capacity in the past few years. However, the FR problem is not perfectly solved in case of uncontrolled illumination and pose. In this paper, we propose to enhance face recognition with a bypass of self-supervised 3D reconstruction, which enforces the neural backbone to focus on the identity-related depth and albedo information while neglects the identity-irrelevant pose and illumination information. Specifically, inspired by the physical model of image formation, we improve the backbone FR network by introducing a 3D face reconstruction loss with two auxiliary networks. The first one estimates the pose and illumination from the input face image while the second one decodes the canonical depth and albedo from the intermediate feature of the FR backbone network. The whole network is trained in end-to-end manner with both classic face identification loss and the loss of 3D face reconstruction with the physical parameters. In this way, the self-supervised reconstruction acts as a regularization that enables the recognition network to understand faces in 3D view, and the learnt features are forced to encode more information of canonical facial depth and albedo, which is more intrinsic and beneficial to face recognition. Extensive experimental results on various face recognition benchmarks show that, without any cost of extra annotations and computations, our method outperforms state-of-the-art ones. Moreover, the learnt representations can also well generalize to other face-related downstream tasks such as the facial attribute recognition with limited labeled data.    

953
KeyTr: Keypoint Transporter for 3D Reconstruction of Deformable Objects in Videos
2022-01-01
    We consider the problem of reconstructing the depth of dynamic objects from videos. Recent progress in dynamic video depth prediction has focused on improving the output of monocular depth estimators by means of multi-view constraints while imposing little to no restrictions on the deformation of the dynamic parts of the scene. However, the theory of Non-Rigid Structure from Motion prescribes to constrain the deformations for 3D reconstruction. We thus propose a new model that departs significantly from this prior work. The idea is to fit a dynamic point cloud to the video data using Sinkhorn's algorithm to associate the 3D points to 2D pixels and use a differentiable point renderer to ensure the compatibility of the 3D deformations with the measured optical flow. In this manner, our algorithm, called Keypoint Transporter, models the overall deformation of the object within the entire video, so it can constrain the reconstruction correspondingly. Compared to weaker deformation models, this significantly reduces the reconstruction ambiguity and, for dynamic objects, allows Keypoint Transporter to obtain reconstructions of the quality superior or at least comparable to prior approaches while being much faster and reliant on a pre-trained monocular depth estimator network. To assess the method, we evaluate on new datasets of synthetic videos depicting dynamic humans and animals with ground-truth depth. We also show qualitative results on crowd-sourced real-world videos of pets.    

954
f-SfT: Shape-From-Template With a Physics-Based Deformation Model
2022-01-01
    Shape-from-Template (SfT) methods estimate 3D surface deformations from a single monocular RGB camera while assuming a 3D state known in advance (a template). This is an important yet challenging problem due to the under-constrained nature of the monocular setting. Existing SfT techniques predominantly use geometric and simplified deformation models, which often limits their reconstruction abilities. In contrast to previous works, this paper proposes a new SfT approach explaining 2D observations through physical simulations accounting for forces and material properties. Our differentiable physics simulator regularises the surface evolution and optimises the material elastic properties such as bending coefficients, stretching stiffness and density. We use a differentiable renderer to minimise the dense reprojection error between the estimated 3D states and the input images and recover the deformation parameters using an adaptive gradient-based optimisation. For the evaluation, we record with an RGB-D camera challenging real surfaces exposed to physical forces with various material properties and textures. Our approach significantly reduces the 3D reconstruction error compared to multiple competing methods. For the source code and data, see https://4dqv.mpi-inf.mpg.de/phi-SfT/.    

955
Blind Face Restoration via Integrating Face Shape and Generative Priors
2022-01-01
    Blind face restoration, which aims to reconstruct high-quality images from low-quality inputs, can benefit many applications. Although existing generative-based methods achieve significant progress in producing high-quality images, they often fail to restore natural face shapes and high-fidelity facial details from severely-degraded inputs. In this work, we propose to integrate shape and generative priors to guide the challenging blind face restoration. Firstly, we set up a shape restoration module to recover reasonable facial geometry with 3D reconstruction. Secondly, a pretrained facial generator is adopted as decoder to generate photo-realistic high-resolution images. To ensure high-fidelity, hierarchical spatial features extracted from the low-quality inputs and rendered 3D images are inserted into the decoder with our proposed Adaptive Feature Fusion Block (AFFB). Moreover, we introduce hybrid-level losses to jointly train the shape and generative priors together with other network parts such that these two priors better adapt to our blind face restoration task. The proposed Shape and Generative Prior integrated Network (SGPN) can restore high-quality images with clear face shapes and realistic facial details. Experimental results on synthetic and real-world datasets demonstrate SGPN performs favorably against state-of-the-art blind face restoration methods.    

956
Machine Learning for Detection of 3D Features using sparse X-ray data
2022-06-02
In many inertial confinement fusion experiments, the neutron yield and other parameters cannot be completely accounted for with one and two dimensional models. This discrepancy suggests that there are three dimensional effects which may be significant. Sources of these effects include defects in the shells and shell interfaces, the fill tube of the capsule, and the joint feature in double shell targets. Due to their ability to penetrate materials, X-rays are used to capture the internal structure of objects. Methods such as Computational Tomography use X-ray radiographs from hundreds of projections in order to reconstruct a three dimensional model of the object. In experimental environments, such as the National Ignition Facility and Omega-60, the availability of these views is scarce and in many cases only consist of a single line of sight. Mathematical reconstruction of a 3D object from sparse views is an ill-posed inverse problem. These types of problems are typically solved by utilizing prior information. Neural networks have been used for the task of 3D reconstruction as they are capable of encoding and leveraging this prior information. We utilize half a dozen different convolutional neural networks to produce different 3D representations of ICF implosions from the experimental data. We utilize deep supervision to train a neural network to produce high resolution reconstructions. We use these representations to track 3D features of the capsules such as the ablator, inner shell, and the joint between shell hemispheres. Machine learning, supplemented by different priors, is a promising method for 3D reconstructions in ICF and X-ray radiography in general.

957
Shape, Light, and Material Decomposition from Images using Monte Carlo Rendering and Denoising
2022-06-07
Recent advances in differentiable rendering have enabled high-quality reconstruction of 3D scenes from multi-view images. Most methods rely on simple rendering algorithms: pre-filtered direct lighting or learned representations of irradiance. We show that a more realistic shading model, incorporating ray tracing and Monte Carlo integration, substantially improves decomposition into shape, materials & lighting. Unfortunately, Monte Carlo integration provides estimates with significant noise, even at large sample counts, which makes gradient-based inverse rendering very challenging. To address this, we incorporate multiple importance sampling and denoising in a novel inverse rendering pipeline. This substantially improves convergence and enables gradient-based optimization at low sample counts. We present an efficient method to jointly reconstruct geometry (explicit triangle meshes), materials, and lighting, which substantially improves material and light separation compared to previous work. We argue that denoising can become an integral part of high quality inverse rendering pipelines.

958
Spatial Acoustic Projection for 3D Imaging Sonar Reconstruction
2022-06-06
In this work we present a novel method for reconstructing 3D surfaces using a multi-beam imaging sonar. We integrate the intensities measured by the sonar from different viewpoints for fixed cell positions in a 3D grid. For each cell we integrate a feature vector that holds the mean intensity for a discretized range of viewpoints. Based on the feature vectors and independent sparse range measurements that act as ground truth information, we train convolutional neural networks that allow us to predict the signed distance and direction to the nearest surface for each cell. The predicted signed distances can be projected into a truncated signed distance field (TSDF) along the predicted directions. Utilizing the marching cubes algorithm, a polygon mesh can be rendered from the TSDF. Our method allows a dense 3D reconstruction from a limited set of viewpoints and was evaluated on three real-world datasets.

959
Fast Organization of Objects' Spatial Positions in Manipulator Space from Single RGB-D Camera
2021-12-05
For the grasp task in physical environment, it is important for the manipulator to know the objects spatial positions with as few sensors as possible in real time. This work proposed an effective framework to organize the objects spatial positions in the manipulator 3D workspace with a single RGB-D camera robustly and fast. It mainly contains two steps: (1) a 3D reconstruction strategy for objects contours obtained in environment; (2) a distance-restricted outlier point elimination strategy to reduce the reconstruction errors caused by sensor noise. The first step ensures fast object extraction and 3D reconstruction from scene image, and the second step contributes to more accurate reconstructions by eliminating outlier points from initial result obtained by the first step. We validated the proposed method in a physical system containing a Kinect 2.0 RGB-D camera and a Mico2 robot. Experiments show that the proposed method can run in quasi real time on a common PC and it outperforms the traditional 3D reconstruction methods.

960
Optical Diffraction Tomography based on 3D Physics-Inspired Neural Network (PINN)
2022-06-10
Optical diffraction tomography (ODT) is an emerging 3D imaging technique that is used for the 3D reconstruction of the refractive index (RI) for semi-transparent samples. Various inverse models have been proposed to reconstruct the 3D RI based on the holographic detection of different samples such as the Born and the Rytov approximations. However, such approximations usually suffer from the so-called missing-cone problem that results in an elongation of the final reconstruction along the optical axis. Different iterative schemes have been proposed to solve the missing cone problem relying on physical forward models and an error function that aims at filling in the k-space and thus eliminating the missing-cone problem and reaching better reconstruction accuracy. In this paper, we propose a different approach where a 3D neural network (NN) is employed. The NN is trained with a cost function derived from a physical model based on the physics of optical wave propagation. The 3D NN starts with an initial guess for the 3D RI reconstruction (i.e. Born, or Rytov) and aims at reconstructing better 3D reconstruction based on an error function. With this technique, the NN can be trained without any examples of the relation between the ill-posed reconstruction (Born or Rytov) and the ground truth (true shape).

961
SNeS: Learning Probably Symmetric Neural Surfaces from Incomplete Data
2022-06-13
We present a method for the accurate 3D reconstruction of partly-symmetric objects. We build on the strengths of recent advances in neural reconstruction and rendering such as Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF). A major shortcoming of such approaches is that they fail to reconstruct any part of the object which is not clearly visible in the training image, which is often the case for in-the-wild images and videos. When evidence is lacking, structural priors such as symmetry can be used to complete the missing information. However, exploiting such priors in neural rendering is highly non-trivial: while geometry and non-reflective materials may be symmetric, shadows and reflections from the ambient scene are not symmetric in general. To address this, we apply a soft symmetry constraint to the 3D geometry and material properties, having factored appearance into lighting, albedo colour and reflectivity. We evaluate our method on the recently introduced CO3D dataset, focusing on the car category due to the challenge of reconstructing highly-reflective materials. We show that it can reconstruct unobserved regions with high fidelity and render high-quality novel view images.

962
DeepRecon: Joint 2D Cardiac Segmentation and 3D Volume Reconstruction via A Structure-Specific Generative Method
2022-06-14
Joint 2D cardiac segmentation and 3D volume reconstruction are fundamental to building statistical cardiac anatomy models and understanding functional mechanisms from motion patterns. However, due to the low through-plane resolution of cine MR and high inter-subject variance, accurately segmenting cardiac images and reconstructing the 3D volume are challenging. In this study, we propose an end-to-end latent-space-based framework, DeepRecon, that generates multiple clinically essential outcomes, including accurate image segmentation, synthetic high-resolution 3D image, and 3D reconstructed volume. Our method identifies the optimal latent representation of the cine image that contains accurate semantic information for cardiac structures. In particular, our model jointly generates synthetic images with accurate semantic information and segmentation of the cardiac structures using the optimal latent representation. We further explore downstream applications of 3D shape reconstruction and 4D motion pattern adaptation by the different latent-space manipulation strategies.The simultaneously generated high-resolution images present a high interpretable value to assess the cardiac shape and motion.Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on multiple fronts including 2D segmentation, 3D reconstruction, downstream 4D motion pattern adaption performance.

963
Neural Scene Representation for Locomotion on Structured Terrain
2022-06-16
We propose a learning-based method to reconstruct the local terrain for locomotion with a mobile robot traversing urban environments. Using a stream of depth measurements from the onboard cameras and the robot's trajectory, the algorithm estimates the topography in the robot's vicinity. The raw measurements from these cameras are noisy and only provide partial and occluded observations that in many cases do not show the terrain the robot stands on. Therefore, we propose a 3D reconstruction model that faithfully reconstructs the scene, despite the noisy measurements and large amounts of missing data coming from the blind spots of the camera arrangement. The model consists of a 4D fully convolutional network on point clouds that learns the geometric priors to complete the scene from the context and an auto-regressive feedback to leverage spatio-temporal consistency and use evidence from the past. The network can be solely trained with synthetic data, and due to extensive augmentation, it is robust in the real world, as shown in the validation on a quadrupedal robot, ANYmal, traversing challenging settings. We run the pipeline on the robot's onboard low-power computer using an efficient sparse tensor implementation and show that the proposed method outperforms classical map representations.

964
Unbiased 4D: Monocular 4D Reconstruction with a Neural Deformation Model
2022-06-16
Capturing general deforming scenes from monocular RGB video is crucial for many computer graphics and vision applications. However, current approaches suffer from drawbacks such as struggling with large scene deformations, inaccurate shape completion or requiring 2D point tracks. In contrast, our method, Ub4D, handles large deformations, performs shape completion in occluded regions, and can operate on monocular RGB videos directly by using differentiable volume rendering. This technique includes three new in the context of non-rigid 3D reconstruction components, i.e., 1) A coordinate-based and implicit neural representation for non-rigid scenes, which in conjunction with differentiable volume rendering enables an unbiased reconstruction of dynamic scenes, 2) a proof that extends the unbiased formulation of volume rendering to dynamic scenes, and 3) a novel dynamic scene flow loss, which enables the reconstruction of larger deformations by leveraging the coarse estimates of other methods. Results on our new dataset, which will be made publicly available, demonstrate a clear improvement over the state of the art in terms of surface reconstruction accuracy and robustness to large deformations.

965
Virtual Correspondence: Humans as a Cue for Extreme-View Geometry
2022-06-16
Recovering the spatial layout of the cameras and the geometry of the scene from extreme-view images is a longstanding challenge in computer vision. Prevailing 3D reconstruction algorithms often adopt the image matching paradigm and presume that a portion of the scene is co-visible across images, yielding poor performance when there is little overlap among inputs. In contrast, humans can associate visible parts in one image to the corresponding invisible components in another image via prior knowledge of the shapes. Inspired by this fact, we present a novel concept called virtual correspondences (VCs). VCs are a pair of pixels from two images whose camera rays intersect in 3D. Similar to classic correspondences, VCs conform with epipolar geometry; unlike classic correspondences, VCs do not need to be co-visible across views. Therefore VCs can be established and exploited even if images do not overlap. We introduce a method to find virtual correspondences based on humans in the scene. We showcase how VCs can be seamlessly integrated with classic bundle adjustment to recover camera poses across extreme views. Experiments show that our method significantly outperforms state-of-the-art camera pose estimation methods in challenging scenarios and is comparable in the traditional densely captured setup. Our approach also unleashes the potential of multiple downstream tasks such as scene reconstruction from multi-view stereo and novel view synthesis in extreme-view scenarios.

966
From a few Accurate 2D Correspondences to 3D Point Clouds
2022-06-13
Key points, correspondences, projection matrices, point clouds and dense clouds are the skeletons in image-based 3D reconstruction, of which point clouds have the important role in generating a realistic and natural model for a 3D reconstructed object. To achieve a good 3D reconstruction, the point clouds must be almost everywhere in the surface of the object. In this article, with a main purpose to build the point clouds covering the entire surface of the object, we propose a new feature named a geodesic feature or geo-feature. Based on the new geo-feature, if there are several (given) initial world points on the object's surface along with all accurately estimated projection matrices, some new world points on the geodesics connecting any two of these given world points will be reconstructed. Then the regions on the surface bordering by these initial world points will be covered by the point clouds. Thus, if the initial world points are around the surface, the point clouds will cover the entire surface. This article proposes a new method to estimate the world points and projection matrices from their correspondences. This method derives the closed-form and iterative solutions for the world points and projection matrices and proves that when the number of world points is less than seven and the number of images is at least five, the proposed solutions are global optimal. We propose an algorithm named World points from their Correspondences (WPfC) to estimate the world points and projection matrices from their correspondences, and another algorithm named Creating Point Clouds (CrPC) to create the point clouds from the world points and projection matrices given by the first algorithm.

967
Attention-driven Active Vision for Efficient Reconstruction of Plants and Targeted Plant Parts
2022-06-21
Visual reconstruction of tomato plants by a robot is extremely challenging due to the high levels of variation and occlusion in greenhouse environments. The paradigm of active-vision helps overcome these challenges by reasoning about previously acquired information and systematically planning camera viewpoints to gather novel information about the plant. However, existing active-vision algorithms cannot perform well on targeted perception objectives, such as the 3D reconstruction of leaf nodes, because they do not distinguish between the plant-parts that need to be reconstructed and the rest of the plant. In this paper, we propose an attention-driven active-vision algorithm that considers only the relevant plant-parts according to the task-at-hand. The proposed approach was evaluated in a simulated environment on the task of 3D reconstruction of tomato plants at varying levels of attention, namely the whole plant, the main stem and the leaf nodes. Compared to pre-defined and random approaches, our approach improves the accuracy of 3D reconstruction by 9.7% and 5.3% for the whole plant, 14.2% and 7.9% for the main stem, and 25.9% and 17.3% for the leaf nodes respectively within the first 3 viewpoints. Also, compared to pre-defined and random approaches, our approach reconstructs 80% of the whole plant and the main stem in 1 less viewpoint and 80% of the leaf nodes in 3 less viewpoints. We also demonstrated that the attention-driven NBV planner works effectively despite changes to the plant models, the amount of occlusion, the number of candidate viewpoints and the resolutions of reconstruction. By adding an attention mechanism to active-vision, it is possible to efficiently reconstruct the whole plant and targeted plant parts. We conclude that an attention mechanism for active-vision is necessary to significantly improve the quality of perception in complex agro-food environments.

968
Shadows Shed Light on 3D Objects
2022-06-17
3D reconstruction is a fundamental problem in computer vision, and the task is especially challenging when the object to reconstruct is partially or fully occluded. We introduce a method that uses the shadows cast by an unobserved object in order to infer the possible 3D volumes behind the occlusion. We create a differentiable image formation model that allows us to jointly infer the 3D shape of an object, its pose, and the position of a light source. Since the approach is end-to-end differentiable, we are able to integrate learned priors of object geometry in order to generate realistic 3D shapes of different object categories. Experiments and visualizations show that the method is able to generate multiple possible solutions that are consistent with the observation of the shadow. Our approach works even when the position of the light source and object pose are both unknown. Our approach is also robust to real-world images where ground-truth shadow mask is unknown.

969
SVoRT: Iterative Transformer for Slice-to-Volume Registration in Fetal Brain MRI
2022-06-22
Volumetric reconstruction of fetal brains from multiple stacks of MR slices, acquired in the presence of almost unpredictable and often severe subject motion, is a challenging task that is highly sensitive to the initialization of slice-to-volume transformations. We propose a novel slice-to-volume registration method using Transformers trained on synthetically transformed data, which model multiple stacks of MR slices as a sequence. With the attention mechanism, our model automatically detects the relevance between slices and predicts the transformation of one slice using information from other slices. We also estimate the underlying 3D volume to assist slice-to-volume registration and update the volume and transformations alternately to improve accuracy. Results on synthetic data show that our method achieves lower registration error and better reconstruction quality compared with existing state-of-the-art methods. Experiments with real-world MRI data are also performed to demonstrate the ability of the proposed model to improve the quality of 3D reconstruction under severe fetal motion.

970
EventNeRF: Neural Radiance Fields from a Single Colour Event Camera
2022-06-23
Asynchronously operating event cameras find many applications due to their high dynamic range, vanishingly low motion blur, low latency and low data bandwidth. The field saw remarkable progress during the last few years, and existing event-based 3D reconstruction approaches recover sparse point clouds of the scene. However, such sparsity is a limiting factor in many cases, especially in computer vision and graphics, that has not been addressed satisfactorily so far. Accordingly, this paper proposes the first approach for 3D-consistent, dense and photorealistic novel view synthesis using just a single colour event stream as input. At its core is a neural radiance field trained entirely in a self-supervised manner from events while preserving the original resolution of the colour event channels. Next, our ray sampling strategy is tailored to events and allows for data-efficient training. At test, our method produces results in the RGB space at unprecedented quality. We evaluate our method qualitatively and numerically on several challenging synthetic and real scenes and show that it produces significantly denser and more visually appealing renderings than the existing methods. We also demonstrate robustness in challenging scenarios with fast motion and under low lighting conditions. We release the newly recorded dataset and our source code to facilitate the research field, see https://4dqv.mpi-inf.mpg.de/EventNeRF.

971
HM3D-ABO: A Photo-realistic Dataset for Object-centric Multi-view 3D Reconstruction
2022-06-24
Reconstructing 3D objects is an important computer vision task that has wide application in AR/VR. Deep learning algorithm developed for this task usually relies on an unrealistic synthetic dataset, such as ShapeNet and Things3D. On the other hand, existing real-captured object-centric datasets usually do not have enough annotation to enable supervised training or reliable evaluation. In this technical report, we present a photo-realistic object-centric dataset HM3D-ABO. It is constructed by composing realistic indoor scene and realistic object. For each configuration, we provide multi-view RGB observations, a water-tight mesh model for the object, ground truth depth map and object mask. The proposed dataset could also be useful for tasks such as camera pose estimation and novel-view synthesis. The dataset generation code is released at https://github.com/zhenpeiyang/HM3D-ABO.

972
Efficient and Robust Training of Dense Object Nets for Multi-Object Robot Manipulation
2022-06-24
We propose a framework for robust and efficient training of Dense Object Nets (DON) with a focus on multi-object robot manipulation scenarios. DON is a popular approach to obtain dense, view-invariant object descriptors, which can be used for a multitude of downstream tasks in robot manipulation, such as, pose estimation, state representation for control, etc.. However, the original work focused training on singulated objects, with limited results on instance-specific, multi-object applications. Additionally, a complex data collection pipeline, including 3D reconstruction and mask annotation of each object, is required for training. In this paper, we further improve the efficacy of DON with a simplified data collection and training regime, that consistently yields higher precision and enables robust tracking of keypoints with less data requirements. In particular, we focus on training with multi-object data instead of singulated objects, combined with a well-chosen augmentation scheme. We additionally propose an alternative loss formulation to the original pixelwise formulation that offers better results and is less sensitive to hyperparameters. Finally, we demonstrate the robustness and accuracy of our proposed framework on a real-world robotic grasping task.

973
Probabilistic PolarGMM: Unsupervised Cluster Learning of Very Noisy Projection Images of Unknown Pose
2022-06-26
A crucial step in single particle analysis (SPA) of cryogenic electron microscopy (Cryo-EM), 2D classification and alignment takes a collection of noisy particle images to infer orientations and group similar images together. Averaging these aligned and clustered noisy images produces a set of clean images, ready for further analysis such as 3D reconstruction. Fourier-Bessel steerable principal component analysis (FBsPCA) enables an efficient, adaptable, low-rank rotation operator. We extend the FBsPCA to additionally handle translations. In this extended FBsPCA representation, we use a probabilistic polar-coordinate Gaussian mixture model to learn soft clusters in an unsupervised fashion using an expectation maximization (EM) algorithm. The obtained rotational clusters are thus additionally robust to the presence of pairwise alignment imperfections. Multiple benchmarks from simulated Cryo-EM datasets show probabilistic PolarGMM's improved performance in comparisons with standard single-particle Cryo-EM tools, EMAN2 and RELION, in terms of various clustering metrics and alignment errors.

974
NeuRIS: Neural Reconstruction of Indoor Scenes Using Normal Priors
2022-06-27
Reconstructing 3D indoor scenes from 2D images is an important task in many computer vision and graphics applications. A main challenge in this task is that large texture-less areas in typical indoor scenes make existing methods struggle to produce satisfactory reconstruction results. We propose a new method, named NeuRIS, for high quality reconstruction of indoor scenes. The key idea of NeuRIS is to integrate estimated normal of indoor scenes as a prior in a neural rendering framework for reconstructing large texture-less shapes and, importantly, to do this in an adaptive manner to also enable the reconstruction of irregular shapes with fine details. Specifically, we evaluate the faithfulness of the normal priors on-the-fly by checking the multi-view consistency of reconstruction during the optimization process. Only the normal priors accepted as faithful will be utilized for 3D reconstruction, which typically happens in the regions of smooth shapes possibly with weak texture. However, for those regions with small objects or thin structures, for which the normal priors are usually unreliable, we will only rely on visual features of the input images, since such regions typically contain relatively rich visual features (e.g., shade changes and boundary contours). Extensive experiments show that NeuRIS significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art methods in terms of reconstruction quality.

975
Neural Rendering for Stereo 3D Reconstruction of Deformable Tissues in Robotic Surgery
2022-06-30
Reconstruction of the soft tissues in robotic surgery from endoscopic stereo videos is important for many applications such as intra-operative navigation and image-guided robotic surgery automation. Previous works on this task mainly rely on SLAM-based approaches, which struggle to handle complex surgical scenes. Inspired by recent progress in neural rendering, we present a novel framework for deformable tissue reconstruction from binocular captures in robotic surgery under the single-viewpoint setting. Our framework adopts dynamic neural radiance fields to represent deformable surgical scenes in MLPs and optimize shapes and deformations in a learning-based manner. In addition to non-rigid deformations, tool occlusion and poor 3D clues from a single viewpoint are also particular challenges in soft tissue reconstruction. To overcome these difficulties, we present a series of strategies of tool mask-guided ray casting, stereo depth-cueing ray marching and stereo depth-supervised optimization. With experiments on DaVinci robotic surgery videos, our method significantly outperforms the current state-of-the-art reconstruction method for handling various complex non-rigid deformations. To our best knowledge, this is the first work leveraging neural rendering for surgical scene 3D reconstruction with remarkable potential demonstrated. Code is available at: https://github.com/med-air/EndoNeRF.

976
What Makes for Automatic Reconstruction of Pulmonary Segments
2022-07-07
3D reconstruction of pulmonary segments plays an important role in surgical treatment planning of lung cancer, which facilitates preservation of pulmonary function and helps ensure low recurrence rates. However, automatic reconstruction of pulmonary segments remains unexplored in the era of deep learning. In this paper, we investigate what makes for automatic reconstruction of pulmonary segments. First and foremost, we formulate, clinically and geometrically, the anatomical definitions of pulmonary segments, and propose evaluation metrics adhering to these definitions. Second, we propose ImPulSe (Implicit Pulmonary Segment), a deep implicit surface model designed for pulmonary segment reconstruction. The automatic reconstruction of pulmonary segments by ImPulSe is accurate in metrics and visually appealing. Compared with canonical segmentation methods, ImPulSe outputs continuous predictions of arbitrary resolutions with higher training efficiency and fewer parameters. Lastly, we experiment with different network inputs to analyze what matters in the task of pulmonary segment reconstruction. Our code is available at https://github.com/M3DV/ImPulSe.

977
Vision Transformers: State of the Art and Research Challenges
2022-07-07
Transformers have achieved great success in natural language processing. Due to the powerful capability of self-attention mechanism in transformers, researchers develop the vision transformers for a variety of computer vision tasks, such as image recognition, object detection, image segmentation, pose estimation, and 3D reconstruction. This paper presents a comprehensive overview of the literature on different architecture designs and training tricks (including self-supervised learning) for vision transformers. Our goal is to provide a systematic review with the open research opportunities.

978
Edge-preserving Near-light Photometric Stereo with Neural Surfaces
2022-07-11
This paper presents a near-light photometric stereo method that faithfully preserves sharp depth edges in the 3D reconstruction. Unlike previous methods that rely on finite differentiation for approximating depth partial derivatives and surface normals, we introduce an analytically differentiable neural surface in near-light photometric stereo for avoiding differentiation errors at sharp depth edges, where the depth is represented as a neural function of the image coordinates. By further formulating the Lambertian albedo as a dependent variable resulting from the surface normal and depth, our method is insusceptible to inaccurate depth initialization. Experiments on both synthetic and real-world scenes demonstrate the effectiveness of our method for detailed shape recovery with edge preservation.

979
Learning-based Monocular 3D Reconstruction of Birds: A Contemporary Survey
2022-07-10
In nature, the collective behavior of animals, such as flying birds is dominated by the interactions between individuals of the same species. However, the study of such behavior among the bird species is a complex process that humans cannot perform using conventional visual observational techniques such as focal sampling in nature. For social animals such as birds, the mechanism of group formation can help ecologists understand the relationship between social cues and their visual characteristics over time (e.g., pose and shape). But, recovering the varying pose and shapes of flying birds is a highly challenging problem. A widely-adopted solution to tackle this bottleneck is to extract the pose and shape information from 2D image to 3D correspondence. Recent advances in 3D vision have led to a number of impressive works on the 3D shape and pose estimation, each with different pros and cons. To the best of our knowledge, this work is the first attempt to provide an overview of recent advances in 3D bird reconstruction based on monocular vision, give both computer vision and biology researchers an overview of existing approaches, and compare their characteristics.

980
Revisiting PatchMatch Multi-View Stereo for Urban 3D Reconstruction
2022-07-18
In this paper, a complete pipeline for image-based 3D reconstruction of urban scenarios is proposed, based on PatchMatch Multi-View Stereo (MVS). Input images are firstly fed into an off-the-shelf visual SLAM system to extract camera poses and sparse keypoints, which are used to initialize PatchMatch optimization. Then, pixelwise depths and normals are iteratively computed in a multi-scale framework with a novel depth-normal consistency loss term and a global refinement algorithm to balance the inherently local nature of PatchMatch. Finally, a large-scale point cloud is generated by back-projecting multi-view consistent estimates in 3D. The proposed approach is carefully evaluated against both classical MVS algorithms and monocular depth networks on the KITTI dataset, showing state of the art performances.

981
Efficient View Clustering and Selection for City-Scale 3D Reconstruction
2022-07-18
Image datasets have been steadily growing in size, harming the feasibility and efficiency of large-scale 3D reconstruction methods. In this paper, a novel approach for scaling Multi-View Stereo (MVS) algorithms up to arbitrarily large collections of images is proposed. Specifically, the problem of reconstructing the 3D model of an entire city is targeted, starting from a set of videos acquired by a moving vehicle equipped with several high-resolution cameras. Initially, the presented method exploits an approximately uniform distribution of poses and geometry and builds a set of overlapping clusters. Then, an Integer Linear Programming (ILP) problem is formulated for each cluster to select an optimal subset of views that guarantees both visibility and matchability. Finally, local point clouds for each cluster are separately computed and merged. Since clustering is independent from pairwise visibility information, the proposed algorithm runs faster than existing literature and allows for a massive parallelization. Extensive testing on urban data are discussed to show the effectiveness and the scalability of this approach.

982
VoloGAN: Adversarial Domain Adaptation for Synthetic Depth Data
2022-07-19
We present VoloGAN, an adversarial domain adaptation network that translates synthetic RGB-D images of a high-quality 3D model of a person, into RGB-D images that could be generated with a consumer depth sensor. This system is especially useful to generate high amount training data for single-view 3D reconstruction algorithms replicating the real-world capture conditions, being able to imitate the style of different sensor types, for the same high-end 3D model database. The network uses a CycleGAN framework with a U-Net architecture for the generator and a discriminator inspired by SIV-GAN. We use different optimizers and learning rate schedules to train the generator and the discriminator. We further construct a loss function that considers image channels individually and, among other metrics, evaluates the structural similarity. We demonstrate that CycleGANs can be used to apply adversarial domain adaptation of synthetic 3D data to train a volumetric video generator model having only few training samples.

983
Object-Compositional Neural Implicit Surfaces
2022-07-20
The neural implicit representation has shown its effectiveness in novel view synthesis and high-quality 3D reconstruction from multi-view images. However, most approaches focus on holistic scene representation yet ignore individual objects inside it, thus limiting potential downstream applications. In order to learn object-compositional representation, a few works incorporate the 2D semantic map as a cue in training to grasp the difference between objects. But they neglect the strong connections between object geometry and instance semantic information, which leads to inaccurate modeling of individual instance. This paper proposes a novel framework, ObjectSDF, to build an object-compositional neural implicit representation with high fidelity in 3D reconstruction and object representation. Observing the ambiguity of conventional volume rendering pipelines, we model the scene by combining the Signed Distance Functions (SDF) of individual object to exert explicit surface constraint. The key in distinguishing different instances is to revisit the strong association between an individual object's SDF and semantic label. Particularly, we convert the semantic information to a function of object SDF and develop a unified and compact representation for scene and objects. Experimental results show the superiority of ObjectSDF framework in representing both the holistic object-compositional scene and the individual instances. Code can be found at https://qianyiwu.github.io/objectsdf/

984
Perspective Phase Angle Model for Polarimetric 3D Reconstruction
2022-07-20
Current polarimetric 3D reconstruction methods, including those in the well-established shape from polarization literature, are all developed under the orthographic projection assumption. In the case of a large field of view, however, this assumption does not hold and may result in significant reconstruction errors in methods that make this assumption. To address this problem, we present the perspective phase angle (PPA) model that is applicable to perspective cameras. Compared with the orthographic model, the proposed PPA model accurately describes the relationship between polarization phase angle and surface normal under perspective projection. In addition, the PPA model makes it possible to estimate surface normals from only one single-view phase angle map and does not suffer from the so-called $\pi$-ambiguity problem. Experiments on real data show that the PPA model is more accurate for surface normal estimation with a perspective camera than the orthographic model.

985
Structural Causal 3D Reconstruction
2022-07-20
This paper considers the problem of unsupervised 3D object reconstruction from in-the-wild single-view images. Due to ambiguity and intrinsic ill-posedness, this problem is inherently difficult to solve and therefore requires strong regularization to achieve disentanglement of different latent factors. Unlike existing works that introduce explicit regularizations into objective functions, we look into a different space for implicit regularization -- the structure of latent space. Specifically, we restrict the structure of latent space to capture a topological causal ordering of latent factors (i.e., representing causal dependency as a directed acyclic graph). We first show that different causal orderings matter for 3D reconstruction, and then explore several approaches to find a task-dependent causal factor ordering. Our experiments demonstrate that the latent space structure indeed serves as an implicit regularization and introduces an inductive bias beneficial for reconstruction.

986
Neural Pixel Composition: 3D-4D View Synthesis from Multi-Views
2022-07-21
We present Neural Pixel Composition (NPC), a novel approach for continuous 3D-4D view synthesis given only a discrete set of multi-view observations as input. Existing state-of-the-art approaches require dense multi-view supervision and an extensive computational budget. The proposed formulation reliably operates on sparse and wide-baseline multi-view imagery and can be trained efficiently within a few seconds to 10 minutes for hi-res (12MP) content, i.e., 200-400X faster convergence than existing methods. Crucial to our approach are two core novelties: 1) a representation of a pixel that contains color and depth information accumulated from multi-views for a particular location and time along a line of sight, and 2) a multi-layer perceptron (MLP) that enables the composition of this rich information provided for a pixel location to obtain the final color output. We experiment with a large variety of multi-view sequences, compare to existing approaches, and achieve better results in diverse and challenging settings. Finally, our approach enables dense 3D reconstruction from sparse multi-views, where COLMAP, a state-of-the-art 3D reconstruction approach, struggles.

987
Multi-Event-Camera Depth Estimation and Outlier Rejection by Refocused Events Fusion
2022-07-21
Event cameras are bio-inspired sensors that offer advantages over traditional cameras. They operate asynchronously, sampling the scene at microsecond resolution and producing a stream of brightness changes. This unconventional output has sparked novel computer vision methods to unlock the camera's potential. Here, the problem of event-based stereo 3D reconstruction for SLAM is considered. Most event-based stereo methods attempt to exploit the high temporal resolution of the camera and the simultaneity of events across cameras to establish matches and estimate depth. By contrast, this work investigates how to estimate depth without explicit data association by fusing Disparity Space Images (DSIs) originated in efficient monocular methods. Fusion theory is developed and applied to design multi-camera 3D reconstruction algorithms that produce state-of-the-art results, as confirmed by comparisons with four baseline methods and tests on a variety of available datasets.

988
2D GANs Meet Unsupervised Single-view 3D Reconstruction
2022-07-20
Recent research has shown that controllable image generation based on pre-trained GANs can benefit a wide range of computer vision tasks. However, less attention has been devoted to 3D vision tasks. In light of this, we propose a novel image-conditioned neural implicit field, which can leverage 2D supervisions from GAN-generated multi-view images and perform the single-view reconstruction of generic objects. Firstly, a novel offline StyleGAN-based generator is presented to generate plausible pseudo images with full control over the viewpoint. Then, we propose to utilize a neural implicit function, along with a differentiable renderer to learn 3D geometry from pseudo images with object masks and rough pose initializations. To further detect the unreliable supervisions, we introduce a novel uncertainty module to predict uncertainty maps, which remedy the negative effect of uncertain regions in pseudo images, leading to a better reconstruction performance. The effectiveness of our approach is demonstrated through superior single-view 3D reconstruction results of generic objects.

989
R2P: A Deep Learning Model from mmWave Radar to Point Cloud
2022-07-21
Recent research has shown the effectiveness of mmWave radar sensing for object detection in low visibility environments, which makes it an ideal technique in autonomous navigation systems. In this paper, we introduce Radar to Point Cloud (R2P), a deep learning model that generates smooth, dense, and highly accurate point cloud representation of a 3D object with fine geometry details, based on rough and sparse point clouds with incorrect points obtained from mmWave radar. These input point clouds are converted from the 2D depth images that are generated from raw mmWave radar sensor data, characterized by inconsistency, and orientation and shape errors. R2P utilizes an architecture of two sequential deep learning encoder-decoder blocks to extract the essential features of those radar-based input point clouds of an object when observed from multiple viewpoints, and to ensure the internal consistency of a generated output point cloud and its accurate and detailed shape reconstruction of the original object. We implement R2P to replace Stage 2 of our recently proposed 3DRIMR (3D Reconstruction and Imaging via mmWave Radar) system. Our experiments demonstrate the significant performance improvement of R2P over the popular existing methods such as PointNet, PCN, and the original 3DRIMR design.

990
Visual Speech-Aware Perceptual 3D Facial Expression Reconstruction from Videos
2022-07-22
The recent state of the art on monocular 3D face reconstruction from image data has made some impressive advancements, thanks to the advent of Deep Learning. However, it has mostly focused on input coming from a single RGB image, overlooking the following important factors: a) Nowadays, the vast majority of facial image data of interest do not originate from single images but rather from videos, which contain rich dynamic information. b) Furthermore, these videos typically capture individuals in some form of verbal communication (public talks, teleconferences, audiovisual human-computer interactions, interviews, monologues/dialogues in movies, etc). When existing 3D face reconstruction methods are applied in such videos, the artifacts in the reconstruction of the shape and motion of the mouth area are often severe, since they do not match well with the speech audio. To overcome the aforementioned limitations, we present the first method for visual speech-aware perceptual reconstruction of 3D mouth expressions. We do this by proposing a "lipread" loss, which guides the fitting process so that the elicited perception from the 3D reconstructed talking head resembles that of the original video footage. We demonstrate that, interestingly, the lipread loss is better suited for 3D reconstruction of mouth movements compared to traditional landmark losses, and even direct 3D supervision. Furthermore, the devised method does not rely on any text transcriptions or corresponding audio, rendering it ideal for training in unlabeled datasets. We verify the efficiency of our method through exhaustive objective evaluations on three large-scale datasets, as well as subjective evaluation with two web-based user studies.

991
NeurAR: Neural Uncertainty for Autonomous 3D Reconstruction with Implicit Neural Representations
2022-07-22
Implicit neural representations have shown compelling results in offline 3D reconstruction and also recently demonstrated the potential for online SLAM systems. However, applying them to autonomous 3D reconstruction, where a robot is required to explore a scene and plan a view path for the reconstruction, has not been studied. In this paper, we explore for the first time the possibility of using implicit neural representations for autonomous 3D scene reconstruction by addressing two key challenges: 1) seeking a criterion to measure the quality of the candidate viewpoints for the view planning based on the new representations, and 2) learning the criterion from data that can generalize to different scenes instead of a hand-crafting one. To solve the challenges, firstly, a proxy of Peak Signal-to-Noise Ratio (PSNR) is proposed to quantify a viewpoint quality; secondly, the proxy is optimized jointly with the parameters of an implicit neural network for the scene. With the proposed view quality criterion from neural networks (termed as Neural Uncertainty), we can then apply implicit representations to autonomous 3D reconstruction. Our method demonstrates significant improvements on various metrics for the rendered image quality and the geometry quality of the reconstructed 3D models when compared with variants using TSDF or reconstruction without view planning. Project webpage https://kingteeloki-ran.github.io/NeurAR/

992
Dense RGB-D-Inertial SLAM with Map Deformations
2022-07-22
While dense visual SLAM methods are capable of estimating dense reconstructions of the environment, they suffer from a lack of robustness in their tracking step, especially when the optimisation is poorly initialised. Sparse visual SLAM systems have attained high levels of accuracy and robustness through the inclusion of inertial measurements in a tightly-coupled fusion. Inspired by this performance, we propose the first tightly-coupled dense RGB-D-inertial SLAM system. Our system has real-time capability while running on a GPU. It jointly optimises for the camera pose, velocity, IMU biases and gravity direction while building up a globally consistent, fully dense surfel-based 3D reconstruction of the environment. Through a series of experiments on both synthetic and real world datasets, we show that our dense visual-inertial SLAM system is more robust to fast motions and periods of low texture and low geometric variation than a related RGB-D-only SLAM system.

993
Cost Volume Pyramid Network with Multi-strategies Range Searching for Multi-view Stereo
2022-07-25
Multi-view stereo is an important research task in computer vision while still keeping challenging. In recent years, deep learning-based methods have shown superior performance on this task. Cost volume pyramid network-based methods which progressively refine depth map in coarse-to-fine manner, have yielded promising results while consuming less memory. However, these methods fail to take fully consideration of the characteristics of the cost volumes in each stage, leading to adopt similar range search strategies for each cost volume stage. In this work, we present a novel cost volume pyramid based network with different searching strategies for multi-view stereo. By choosing different depth range sampling strategies and applying adaptive unimodal filtering, we are able to obtain more accurate depth estimation in low resolution stages and iteratively upsample depth map to arbitrary resolution. We conducted extensive experiments on both DTU and BlendedMVS datasets, and results show that our method outperforms most state-of-the-art methods.

994
DeepFusion: Real-Time Dense 3D Reconstruction for Monocular SLAM using Single-View Depth and Gradient Predictions
2022-07-25
While the keypoint-based maps created by sparse monocular simultaneous localisation and mapping (SLAM) systems are useful for camera tracking, dense 3D reconstructions may be desired for many robotic tasks. Solutions involving depth cameras are limited in range and to indoor spaces, and dense reconstruction systems based on minimising the photometric error between frames are typically poorly constrained and suffer from scale ambiguity. To address these issues, we propose a 3D reconstruction system that leverages the output of a convolutional neural network (CNN) to produce fully dense depth maps for keyframes that include metric scale. Our system, DeepFusion, is capable of producing real-time dense reconstructions on a GPU. It fuses the output of a semi-dense multiview stereo algorithm with the depth and gradient predictions of a CNN in a probabilistic fashion, using learned uncertainties produced by the network. While the network only needs to be run once per keyframe, we are able to optimise for the depth map with each new frame so as to constantly make use of new geometric constraints. Based on its performance on synthetic and real-world datasets, we demonstrate that DeepFusion is capable of performing at least as well as other comparable systems.

995
Efficient Pix2Vox++ for 3D Cardiac Reconstruction from 2D echo views
2022-07-27
Accurate geometric quantification of the human heart is a key step in the diagnosis of numerous cardiac diseases, and in the management of cardiac patients. Ultrasound imaging is the primary modality for cardiac imaging, however acquisition requires high operator skill, and its interpretation and analysis is difficult due to artifacts. Reconstructing cardiac anatomy in 3D can enable discovery of new biomarkers and make imaging less dependent on operator expertise, however most ultrasound systems only have 2D imaging capabilities. We propose both a simple alteration to the Pix2Vox++ networks for a sizeable reduction in memory usage and computational complexity, and a pipeline to perform reconstruction of 3D anatomy from 2D standard cardiac views, effectively enabling 3D anatomical reconstruction from limited 2D data. We evaluate our pipeline using synthetically generated data achieving accurate 3D whole-heart reconstructions (peak intersection over union score > 0.88) from just two standard anatomical 2D views of the heart. We also show preliminary results using real echo images.

996
Towards the Probabilistic Fusion of Learned Priors into Standard Pipelines for 3D Reconstruction
2022-07-27
The best way to combine the results of deep learning with standard 3D reconstruction pipelines remains an open problem. While systems that pass the output of traditional multi-view stereo approaches to a network for regularisation or refinement currently seem to get the best results, it may be preferable to treat deep neural networks as separate components whose results can be probabilistically fused into geometry-based systems. Unfortunately, the error models required to do this type of fusion are not well understood, with many different approaches being put forward. Recently, a few systems have achieved good results by having their networks predict probability distributions rather than single values. We propose using this approach to fuse a learned single-view depth prior into a standard 3D reconstruction system. Our system is capable of incrementally producing dense depth maps for a set of keyframes. We train a deep neural network to predict discrete, nonparametric probability distributions for the depth of each pixel from a single image. We then fuse this "probability volume" with another probability volume based on the photometric consistency between subsequent frames and the keyframe image. We argue that combining the probability volumes from these two sources will result in a volume that is better conditioned. To extract depth maps from the volume, we minimise a cost function that includes a regularisation term based on network predicted surface normals and occlusion boundaries. Through a series of experiments, we demonstrate that each of these components improves the overall performance of the system.

997
Cross-Attention of Disentangled Modalities for 3D Human Mesh Recovery with Transformers
2022-07-27
Transformer encoder architectures have recently achieved state-of-the-art results on monocular 3D human mesh reconstruction, but they require a substantial number of parameters and expensive computations. Due to the large memory overhead and slow inference speed, it is difficult to deploy such models for practical use. In this paper, we propose a novel transformer encoder-decoder architecture for 3D human mesh reconstruction from a single image, called FastMETRO. We identify the performance bottleneck in the encoder-based transformers is caused by the token design which introduces high complexity interactions among input tokens. We disentangle the interactions via an encoder-decoder architecture, which allows our model to demand much fewer parameters and shorter inference time. In addition, we impose the prior knowledge of human body's morphological relationship via attention masking and mesh upsampling operations, which leads to faster convergence with higher accuracy. Our FastMETRO improves the Pareto-front of accuracy and efficiency, and clearly outperforms image-based methods on Human3.6M and 3DPW. Furthermore, we validate its generalizability on FreiHAND.

998
The One Where They Reconstructed 3D Humans and Environments in TV Shows
2022-07-28
TV shows depict a wide variety of human behaviors and have been studied extensively for their potential to be a rich source of data for many applications. However, the majority of the existing work focuses on 2D recognition tasks. In this paper, we make the observation that there is a certain persistence in TV shows, i.e., repetition of the environments and the humans, which makes possible the 3D reconstruction of this content. Building on this insight, we propose an automatic approach that operates on an entire season of a TV show and aggregates information in 3D; we build a 3D model of the environment, compute camera information, static 3D scene structure and body scale information. Then, we demonstrate how this information acts as rich 3D context that can guide and improve the recovery of 3D human pose and position in these environments. Moreover, we show that reasoning about humans and their environment in 3D enables a broad range of downstream applications: re-identification, gaze estimation, cinematography and image editing. We apply our approach on environments from seven iconic TV shows and perform an extensive evaluation of the proposed system.

999
Few-shot Single-view 3D Reconstruction with Memory Prior Contrastive Network
2022-07-30
3D reconstruction of novel categories based on few-shot learning is appealing in real-world applications and attracts increasing research interests. Previous approaches mainly focus on how to design shape prior models for different categories. Their performance on unseen categories is not very competitive. In this paper, we present a Memory Prior Contrastive Network (MPCN) that can store shape prior knowledge in a few-shot learning based 3D reconstruction framework. With the shape memory, a multi-head attention module is proposed to capture different parts of a candidate shape prior and fuse these parts together to guide 3D reconstruction of novel categories. Besides, we introduce a 3D-aware contrastive learning method, which can not only complement the retrieval accuracy of memory network, but also better organize image features for downstream tasks. Compared with previous few-shot 3D reconstruction methods, MPCN can handle the inter-class variability without category annotations. Experimental results on a benchmark synthetic dataset and the Pascal3D+ real-world dataset show that our model outperforms the current state-of-the-art methods significantly.

1000
Neural Correspondence Field for Object Pose Estimation
2022-07-30
We propose a method for estimating the 6DoF pose of a rigid object with an available 3D model from a single RGB image. Unlike classical correspondence-based methods which predict 3D object coordinates at pixels of the input image, the proposed method predicts 3D object coordinates at 3D query points sampled in the camera frustum. The move from pixels to 3D points, which is inspired by recent PIFu-style methods for 3D reconstruction, enables reasoning about the whole object, including its (self-)occluded parts. For a 3D query point associated with a pixel-aligned image feature, we train a fully-connected neural network to predict: (i) the corresponding 3D object coordinates, and (ii) the signed distance to the object surface, with the first defined only for query points in the surface vicinity. We call the mapping realized by this network as Neural Correspondence Field. The object pose is then robustly estimated from the predicted 3D-3D correspondences by the Kabsch-RANSAC algorithm. The proposed method achieves state-of-the-art results on three BOP datasets and is shown superior especially in challenging cases with occlusion. The project website is at: linhuang17.github.io/NCF.

1001
Learning Object Manipulation Skills from Video via Approximate Differentiable Physics
2022-08-03
We aim to teach robots to perform simple object manipulation tasks by watching a single video demonstration. Towards this goal, we propose an optimization approach that outputs a coarse and temporally evolving 3D scene to mimic the action demonstrated in the input video. Similar to previous work, a differentiable renderer ensures perceptual fidelity between the 3D scene and the 2D video. Our key novelty lies in the inclusion of a differentiable approach to solve a set of Ordinary Differential Equations (ODEs) that allows us to approximately model laws of physics such as gravity, friction, and hand-object or object-object interactions. This not only enables us to dramatically improve the quality of estimated hand and object states, but also produces physically admissible trajectories that can be directly translated to a robot without the need for costly reinforcement learning. We evaluate our approach on a 3D reconstruction task that consists of 54 video demonstrations sourced from 9 actions such as pull something from right to left or put something in front of something. Our approach improves over previous state-of-the-art by almost 30%, demonstrating superior quality on especially challenging actions involving physical interactions of two objects such as put something onto something. Finally, we showcase the learned skills on a Franka Emika Panda robot.

1002
MVSFormer: Multi-View Stereo by Learning Robust Image Features and Temperature-based Depth
2022-08-04
Feature representation learning is the key recipe for learning-based Multi-View Stereo (MVS). As the common feature extractor of learning-based MVS, vanilla Feature Pyramid Networks (FPNs) suffer from discouraged feature representations for reflection and texture-less areas, which limits the generalization of MVS. Even FPNs worked with pre-trained Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) fail to tackle these issues. On the other hand, Vision Transformers (ViTs) have achieved prominent success in many 2D vision tasks. Thus we ask whether ViTs can facilitate feature learning in MVS? In this paper, we propose a pre-trained ViT enhanced MVS network called MVSFormer, which can learn more reliable feature representations benefited by informative priors from ViT. The finetuned MVSFormer with hierarchical ViTs of efficient attention mechanisms can achieve prominent improvement based on FPNs. Besides, the alternative MVSFormer with frozen ViT weights is further proposed. This largely alleviates the training cost with competitive performance strengthened by the attention map from the self-distillation pre-training. MVSFormer can be generalized to various input resolutions with efficient multi-scale training strengthened by gradient accumulation. Moreover, we discuss the merits and drawbacks of classification and regression-based MVS methods, and further propose to unify them with a temperature-based strategy. MVSFormer achieves state-of-the-art performance on the DTU dataset. Particularly, MVSFormer ranks as Top-1 on both intermediate and advanced sets of the highly competitive Tanks-and-Temples leaderboard.

1003
Disentangling 3D Attributes from a Single 2D Image: Human Pose, Shape and Garment
2022-08-05
For visual manipulation tasks, we aim to represent image content with semantically meaningful features. However, learning implicit representations from images often lacks interpretability, especially when attributes are intertwined. We focus on the challenging task of extracting disentangled 3D attributes only from 2D image data. Specifically, we focus on human appearance and learn implicit pose, shape and garment representations of dressed humans from RGB images. Our method learns an embedding with disentangled latent representations of these three image properties and enables meaningful re-assembling of features and property control through a 2D-to-3D encoder-decoder structure. The 3D model is inferred solely from the feature map in the learned embedding space. To the best of our knowledge, our method is the first to achieve cross-domain disentanglement for this highly under-constrained problem. We qualitatively and quantitatively demonstrate our framework's ability to transfer pose, shape, and garments in 3D reconstruction on virtual data and show how an implicit shape loss can benefit the model's ability to recover fine-grained reconstruction details.

1004
PlaneFormers: From Sparse View Planes to 3D Reconstruction
2022-08-08
We present an approach for the planar surface reconstruction of a scene from images with limited overlap. This reconstruction task is challenging since it requires jointly reasoning about single image 3D reconstruction, correspondence between images, and the relative camera pose between images. Past work has proposed optimization-based approaches. We introduce a simpler approach, the PlaneFormer, that uses a transformer applied to 3D-aware plane tokens to perform 3D reasoning. Our experiments show that our approach is substantially more effective than prior work, and that several 3D-specific design decisions are crucial for its success.

1005
Visual-Inertial Multi-Instance Dynamic SLAM with Object-level Relocalisation
2022-08-08
In this paper, we present a tightly-coupled visual-inertial object-level multi-instance dynamic SLAM system. Even in extremely dynamic scenes, it can robustly optimise for the camera pose, velocity, IMU biases and build a dense 3D reconstruction object-level map of the environment. Our system can robustly track and reconstruct the geometries of arbitrary objects, their semantics and motion by incrementally fusing associated colour, depth, semantic, and foreground object probabilities into each object model thanks to its robust sensor and object tracking. In addition, when an object is lost or moved outside the camera field of view, our system can reliably recover its pose upon re-observation. We demonstrate the robustness and accuracy of our method by quantitatively and qualitatively testing it in real-world data sequences.

1006
MD-Net: Multi-Detector for Local Feature Extraction
2022-08-10
Establishing a sparse set of keypoint correspon dences between images is a fundamental task in many computer vision pipelines. Often, this translates into a computationally expensive nearest neighbor search, where every keypoint descriptor at one image must be compared with all the descriptors at the others. In order to lower the computational cost of the matching phase, we propose a deep feature extraction network capable of detecting a predefined number of complementary sets of keypoints at each image. Since only the descriptors within the same set need to be compared across the different images, the matching phase computational complexity decreases with the number of sets. We train our network to predict the keypoints and compute the corresponding descriptors jointly. In particular, in order to learn complementary sets of keypoints, we introduce a novel unsupervised loss which penalizes intersections among the different sets. Additionally, we propose a novel descriptor-based weighting scheme meant to penalize the detection of keypoints with non-discriminative descriptors. With extensive experiments we show that our feature extraction network, trained only on synthetically warped images and in a fully unsupervised manner, achieves competitive results on 3D reconstruction and re-localization tasks at a reduced matching complexity.

1007
Adaptive Joint Optimization for 3D Reconstruction with Differentiable Rendering
2022-08-15
Due to inevitable noises introduced during scanning and quantization, 3D reconstruction via RGB-D sensors suffers from errors both in geometry and texture, leading to artifacts such as camera drifting, mesh distortion, texture ghosting, and blurriness. Given an imperfect reconstructed 3D model, most previous methods have focused on the refinement of either geometry, texture, or camera pose. Or different optimization schemes and objectives for optimizing each component have been used in previous joint optimization methods, forming a complicated system. In this paper, we propose a novel optimization approach based on differentiable rendering, which integrates the optimization of camera pose, geometry, and texture into a unified framework by enforcing consistency between the rendered results and the corresponding RGB-D inputs. Based on the unified framework, we introduce a joint optimization approach to fully exploit the inter-relationships between geometry, texture, and camera pose, and describe an adaptive interleaving strategy to improve optimization stability and efficiency. Using differentiable rendering, an image-level adversarial loss is applied to further improve the 3D model, making it more photorealistic. Experiments on synthetic and real data using quantitative and qualitative evaluation demonstrated the superiority of our approach in recovering both fine-scale geometry and high-fidelity texture.Code is available at https://adjointopti.github.io/adjoin.github.io/.

1008
SketchSampler: Sketch-based 3D Reconstruction via View-dependent Depth Sampling
2022-08-14
Reconstructing a 3D shape based on a single sketch image is challenging due to the large domain gap between a sparse, irregular sketch and a regular, dense 3D shape. Existing works try to employ the global feature extracted from sketch to directly predict the 3D coordinates, but they usually suffer from losing fine details that are not faithful to the input sketch. Through analyzing the 3D-to-2D projection process, we notice that the density map that characterizes the distribution of 2D point clouds (i.e., the probability of points projected at each location of the projection plane) can be used as a proxy to facilitate the reconstruction process. To this end, we first translate a sketch via an image translation network to a more informative 2D representation that can be used to generate a density map. Next, a 3D point cloud is reconstructed via a two-stage probabilistic sampling process: first recovering the 2D points (i.e., the x and y coordinates) by sampling the density map; and then predicting the depth (i.e., the z coordinate) by sampling the depth values at the ray determined by each 2D point. Extensive experiments are conducted, and both quantitative and qualitative results show that our proposed approach significantly outperforms other baseline methods.

1009
Improving Computed Tomography (CT) Reconstruction via 3D Shape Induction
2022-08-23
Chest computed tomography (CT) imaging adds valuable insight in the diagnosis and management of pulmonary infectious diseases, like tuberculosis (TB). However, due to the cost and resource limitations, only X-ray images may be available for initial diagnosis or follow up comparison imaging during treatment. Due to their projective nature, X-rays images may be more difficult to interpret by clinicians. The lack of publicly available paired X-ray and CT image datasets makes it challenging to train a 3D reconstruction model. In addition, Chest X-ray radiology may rely on different device modalities with varying image quality and there may be variation in underlying population disease spectrum that creates diversity in inputs. We propose shape induction, that is, learning the shape of 3D CT from X-ray without CT supervision, as a novel technique to incorporate realistic X-ray distributions during training of a reconstruction model. Our experiments demonstrate that this process improves both the perceptual quality of generated CT and the accuracy of down-stream classification of pulmonary infectious diseases.

1010
PeRFception: Perception using Radiance Fields
2022-08-24
The recent progress in implicit 3D representation, i.e., Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs), has made accurate and photorealistic 3D reconstruction possible in a differentiable manner. This new representation can effectively convey the information of hundreds of high-resolution images in one compact format and allows photorealistic synthesis of novel views. In this work, using the variant of NeRF called Plenoxels, we create the first large-scale implicit representation datasets for perception tasks, called the PeRFception, which consists of two parts that incorporate both object-centric and scene-centric scans for classification and segmentation. It shows a significant memory compression rate (96.4\%) from the original dataset, while containing both 2D and 3D information in a unified form. We construct the classification and segmentation models that directly take as input this implicit format and also propose a novel augmentation technique to avoid overfitting on backgrounds of images. The code and data are publicly available in https://postech-cvlab.github.io/PeRFception .

1011
Fast Auto-Differentiable Digitally Reconstructed Radiographs for Solving Inverse Problems in Intraoperative Imaging
2022-08-26
The use of digitally reconstructed radiographs (DRRs) to solve inverse problems such as slice-to-volume registration and 3D reconstruction is well-studied in preoperative settings. In intraoperative imaging, the utility of DRRs is limited by the challenges in generating them in real-time and supporting optimization procedures that rely on repeated DRR synthesis. While immense progress has been made in accelerating the generation of DRRs through algorithmic refinements and GPU implementations, DRR-based optimization remains slow because most DRR generators do not offer a straightforward way to obtain gradients with respect to the imaging parameters. To make DRRs interoperable with gradient-based optimization and deep learning frameworks, we have reformulated Siddon's method, the most popular ray-tracing algorithm used in DRR generation, as a series of vectorized tensor operations. We implemented this vectorized version of Siddon's method in PyTorch, taking advantage of the library's strong automatic differentiation engine to make this DRR generator fully differentiable with respect to its parameters. Additionally, using GPU-accelerated tensor computation enables our vectorized implementation to achieve rendering speeds equivalent to state-of-the-art DRR generators implemented in CUDA and C++. We illustrate the resulting method in the context of slice-to-volume registration. Moreover, our simulations suggest that the loss landscapes for the slice-to-volume registration problem are convex in the neighborhood of the optimal solution, and gradient-based registration promises a much faster solution than prevailing gradient-free optimization strategies. The proposed DRR generator enables fast computer vision algorithms to support image guidance in minimally invasive procedures. Our implementation is publically available at https://github.com/v715/DiffDRR.

1012
SimpleRecon: 3D Reconstruction Without 3D Convolutions
2022-08-31
Traditionally, 3D indoor scene reconstruction from posed images happens in two phases: per-image depth estimation, followed by depth merging and surface reconstruction. Recently, a family of methods have emerged that perform reconstruction directly in final 3D volumetric feature space. While these methods have shown impressive reconstruction results, they rely on expensive 3D convolutional layers, limiting their application in resource-constrained environments. In this work, we instead go back to the traditional route, and show how focusing on high quality multi-view depth prediction leads to highly accurate 3D reconstructions using simple off-the-shelf depth fusion. We propose a simple state-of-the-art multi-view depth estimator with two main contributions: 1) a carefully-designed 2D CNN which utilizes strong image priors alongside a plane-sweep feature volume and geometric losses, combined with 2) the integration of keyframe and geometric metadata into the cost volume which allows informed depth plane scoring. Our method achieves a significant lead over the current state-of-the-art for depth estimation and close or better for 3D reconstruction on ScanNet and 7-Scenes, yet still allows for online real-time low-memory reconstruction. Code, models and results are available at https://nianticlabs.github.io/simplerecon

1013
Deep Learning Assisted Optimization for 3D Reconstruction from Single 2D Line Drawings
2022-09-06
In this paper, we revisit the long-standing problem of automatic reconstruction of 3D objects from single line drawings. Previous optimization-based methods can generate compact and accurate 3D models, but their success rates depend heavily on the ability to (i) identifying a sufficient set of true geometric constraints, and (ii) choosing a good initial value for the numerical optimization. In view of these challenges, we propose to train deep neural networks to detect pairwise relationships among geometric entities (i.e., edges) in the 3D object, and to predict initial depth value of the vertices. Our experiments on a large dataset of CAD models show that, by leveraging deep learning in a geometric constraint solving pipeline, the success rate of optimization-based 3D reconstruction can be significantly improved.

1014
A comprehensive survey on recent deep learning-based methods applied to surgical data
2022-09-03
Minimally invasive surgery is highly operator dependant with a lengthy procedural time causing fatigue to surgeon and risks to patients such as injury to organs, infection, bleeding, and complications of anesthesia. To mitigate such risks, real-time systems are desired to be developed that can provide intra-operative guidance to surgeons. For example, an automated system for tool localization, tool (or tissue) tracking, and depth estimation can enable a clear understanding of surgical scenes preventing miscalculations during surgical procedures. In this work, we present a systematic review of recent machine learning-based approaches including surgical tool localization, segmentation, tracking, and 3D scene perception. Furthermore, we provide a detailed overview of publicly available benchmark datasets widely used for surgical navigation tasks. While recent deep learning architectures have shown promising results, there are still several open research problems such as a lack of annotated datasets, the presence of artifacts in surgical scenes, and non-textured surfaces that hinder 3D reconstruction of the anatomical structures. Based on our comprehensive review, we present a discussion on current gaps and needed steps to improve the adaptation of technology in surgery.

1015
Inferring Implicit 3D Representations from Human Figures on Pictorial Maps
2022-08-30
In this work, we present an automated workflow to bring human figures, one of the most frequently appearing entities on pictorial maps, to the third dimension. Our workflow is based on training data and neural networks for single-view 3D reconstruction of real humans from photos. We first let a network consisting of fully connected layers estimate the depth coordinate of 2D pose points. The gained 3D pose points are inputted together with 2D masks of body parts into a deep implicit surface network to infer 3D signed distance fields (SDFs). By assembling all body parts, we derive 2D depth images and body part masks of the whole figure for different views, which are fed into a fully convolutional network to predict UV images. These UV images and the texture for the given perspective are inserted into a generative network to inpaint the textures for the other views. The textures are enhanced by a cartoonization network and facial details are resynthesized by an autoencoder. Finally, the generated textures are assigned to the inferred body parts in a ray marcher. We test our workflow with 12 pictorial human figures after having validated several network configurations. The created 3D models look generally promising, especially when considering the challenges of silhouette-based 3D recovery and real-time rendering of the implicit SDFs. Further improvement is needed to reduce gaps between the body parts and to add pictorial details to the textures. Overall, the constructed figures may be used for animation and storytelling in digital 3D maps.

1016
3D Single-pixel imaging with active sampling patterns and learning based reconstruction
2022-09-06
Single-pixel imaging (SPI) is significant for applications constrained by transmission bandwidth or lighting band, where 3D SPI can be further realized through capturing signals carrying depth. Sampling strategy and reconstruction algorithm are the key issues of SPI. Traditionally, random patterns are often adopted for sampling, but this blindly passive strategy requires a high sampling rate, and even so, it is difficult to develop a reconstruction algorithm that can maintain higher accuracy and robustness. In this paper, an active strategy is proposed to perform sampling with targeted scanning by designed patterns, from which the spatial information can be easily reordered well. Then, deep learning methods are introduced further to achieve 3D reconstruction, and the ability of deep learning to reconstruct desired information under low sampling rates are analyzed. Abundant experiments verify that our method improves the precision of SPI even if the sampling rate is very low, which has the potential to be extended flexibly in similar systems according to practical needs.

1017
Multi-NeuS: 3D Head Portraits from Single Image with Neural Implicit Functions
2022-09-07
We present an approach for the reconstruction of textured 3D meshes of human heads from one or few views. Since such few-shot reconstruction is underconstrained, it requires prior knowledge which is hard to impose on traditional 3D reconstruction algorithms. In this work, we rely on the recently introduced 3D representation $\unicode{x2013}$ neural implicit functions $\unicode{x2013}$ which, being based on neural networks, allows to naturally learn priors about human heads from data, and is directly convertible to textured mesh. Namely, we extend NeuS, a state-of-the-art neural implicit function formulation, to represent multiple objects of a class (human heads in our case) simultaneously. The underlying neural net architecture is designed to learn the commonalities among these objects and to generalize to unseen ones. Our model is trained on just a hundred smartphone videos and does not require any scanned 3D data. Afterwards, the model can fit novel heads in the few-shot or one-shot modes with good results.

1018
Articulated 3D Human-Object Interactions from RGB Videos: An Empirical Analysis of Approaches and Challenges
2022-09-12
Human-object interactions with articulated objects are common in everyday life. Despite much progress in single-view 3D reconstruction, it is still challenging to infer an articulated 3D object model from an RGB video showing a person manipulating the object. We canonicalize the task of articulated 3D human-object interaction reconstruction from RGB video, and carry out a systematic benchmark of five families of methods for this task: 3D plane estimation, 3D cuboid estimation, CAD model fitting, implicit field fitting, and free-form mesh fitting. Our experiments show that all methods struggle to obtain high accuracy results even when provided ground truth information about the observed objects. We identify key factors which make the task challenging and suggest directions for future work on this challenging 3D computer vision task. Short video summary at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5tAlKBojZwc

1019
INV-Flow2PoseNet: Light-Resistant Rigid Object Pose from Optical Flow of RGB-D Images using Images, Normals and Vertices
2022-09-14
This paper presents a novel architecture for simultaneous estimation of highly accurate optical flows and rigid scene transformations for difficult scenarios where the brightness assumption is violated by strong shading changes. In the case of rotating objects or moving light sources, such as those encountered for driving cars in the dark, the scene appearance often changes significantly from one view to the next. Unfortunately, standard methods for calculating optical flows or poses are based on the expectation that the appearance of features in the scene remain constant between views. These methods may fail frequently in the investigated cases. The presented method fuses texture and geometry information by combining image, vertex and normal data to compute an illumination-invariant optical flow. By using a coarse-to-fine strategy, globally anchored optical flows are learned, reducing the impact of erroneous shading-based pseudo-correspondences. Based on the learned optical flows, a second architecture is proposed that predicts robust rigid transformations from the warped vertex and normal maps. Particular attention is payed to situations with strong rotations, which often cause such shading changes. Therefore a 3-step procedure is proposed that profitably exploits correlations between the normals and vertices. The method has been evaluated on a newly created dataset containing both synthetic and real data with strong rotations and shading effects. This data represents the typical use case in 3D reconstruction, where the object often rotates in large steps between the partial reconstructions. Additionally, we apply the method to the well-known Kitti Odometry dataset. Even if, due to fulfillment of the brighness assumption, this is not the typical use case of the method, the applicability to standard situations and the relation to other methods is therefore established.

1020
End-to-End Multi-View Structure-from-Motion with Hypercorrelation Volumes
2022-09-14
Image-based 3D reconstruction is one of the most important tasks in Computer Vision with many solutions proposed over the last few decades. The objective is to extract metric information i.e. the geometry of scene objects directly from images. These can then be used in a wide range of applications such as film, games, virtual reality, etc. Recently, deep learning techniques have been proposed to tackle this problem. They rely on training on vast amounts of data to learn to associate features between images through deep convolutional neural networks and have been shown to outperform traditional procedural techniques. In this paper, we improve on the state-of-the-art two-view structure-from-motion(SfM) approach of [11] by incorporating 4D correlation volume for more accurate feature matching and reconstruction. Furthermore, we extend it to the general multi-view case and evaluate it on the complex benchmark dataset DTU [4]. Quantitative evaluations and comparisons with state-of-the-art multi-view 3D reconstruction methods demonstrate its superiority in terms of the accuracy of reconstructions.

1021
DifferSketching: How Differently Do People Sketch 3D Objects?
2022-09-19
Multiple sketch datasets have been proposed to understand how people draw 3D objects. However, such datasets are often of small scale and cover a small set of objects or categories. In addition, these datasets contain freehand sketches mostly from expert users, making it difficult to compare the drawings by expert and novice users, while such comparisons are critical in informing more effective sketch-based interfaces for either user groups. These observations motivate us to analyze how differently people with and without adequate drawing skills sketch 3D objects. We invited 70 novice users and 38 expert users to sketch 136 3D objects, which were presented as 362 images rendered from multiple views. This leads to a new dataset of 3,620 freehand multi-view sketches, which are registered with their corresponding 3D objects under certain views. Our dataset is an order of magnitude larger than the existing datasets. We analyze the collected data at three levels, i.e., sketch-level, stroke-level, and pixel-level, under both spatial and temporal characteristics, and within and across groups of creators. We found that the drawings by professionals and novices show significant differences at stroke-level, both intrinsically and extrinsically. We demonstrate the usefulness of our dataset in two applications: (i) freehand-style sketch synthesis, and (ii) posing it as a potential benchmark for sketch-based 3D reconstruction. Our dataset and code are available at https://chufengxiao.github.io/DifferSketching/.

1022
Uncertainty Guided Policy for Active Robotic 3D Reconstruction using Neural Radiance Fields
2022-09-17
In this paper, we tackle the problem of active robotic 3D reconstruction of an object. In particular, we study how a mobile robot with an arm-held camera can select a favorable number of views to recover an object's 3D shape efficiently. Contrary to the existing solution to this problem, we leverage the popular neural radiance fields-based object representation, which has recently shown impressive results for various computer vision tasks. However, it is not straightforward to directly reason about an object's explicit 3D geometric details using such a representation, making the next-best-view selection problem for dense 3D reconstruction challenging. This paper introduces a ray-based volumetric uncertainty estimator, which computes the entropy of the weight distribution of the color samples along each ray of the object's implicit neural representation. We show that it is possible to infer the uncertainty of the underlying 3D geometry given a novel view with the proposed estimator. We then present a next-best-view selection policy guided by the ray-based volumetric uncertainty in neural radiance fields-based representations. Encouraging experimental results on synthetic and real-world data suggest that the approach presented in this paper can enable a new research direction of using an implicit 3D object representation for the next-best-view problem in robot vision applications, distinguishing our approach from the existing approaches that rely on explicit 3D geometric modeling.

1023
Neural Implicit Surface Reconstruction using Imaging Sonar
2022-09-17
We present a technique for dense 3D reconstruction of objects using an imaging sonar, also known as forward-looking sonar (FLS). Compared to previous methods that model the scene geometry as point clouds or volumetric grids, we represent the geometry as a neural implicit function. Additionally, given such a representation, we use a differentiable volumetric renderer that models the propagation of acoustic waves to synthesize imaging sonar measurements. We perform experiments on real and synthetic datasets and show that our algorithm reconstructs high-fidelity surface geometry from multi-view FLS images at much higher quality than was possible with previous techniques and without suffering from their associated memory overhead.

1024
BuFF: Burst Feature Finder for Light-Constrained 3D Reconstruction
2022-09-20
Robots operating at night using conventional vision cameras face significant challenges in reconstruction due to noise-limited images. Previous work has demonstrated that burst-imaging techniques can be used to partially overcome this issue. In this paper, we develop a novel feature detector that operates directly on image bursts that enhances vision-based reconstruction under extremely low-light conditions. Our approach finds keypoints with well-defined scale and apparent motion within each burst by jointly searching in a multi-scale and multi-motion space. Because we describe these features at a stage where the images have higher signal-to-noise ratio, the detected features are more accurate than the state-of-the-art on conventional noisy images and burst-merged images and exhibit high precision, recall, and matching performance. We show improved feature performance and camera pose estimates and demonstrate improved structure-from-motion performance using our feature detector in challenging light-constrained scenes. Our feature finder provides a significant step towards robots operating in low-light scenarios and applications including night-time operations.

1025
Fast-Image2Point: Towards Real-Time Point Cloud Reconstruction of a Single Image using 3D Supervision
2022-09-20
A key question in the problem of 3D reconstruction is how to train a machine or a robot to model 3D objects. Many tasks like navigation in real-time systems such as autonomous vehicles directly depend on this problem. These systems usually have limited computational power. Despite considerable progress in 3D reconstruction systems in recent years, applying them to real-time systems such as navigation systems in autonomous vehicles is still challenging due to the high complexity and computational demand of the existing methods. This study addresses current problems in reconstructing objects displayed in a single-view image in a faster (real-time) fashion. To this end, a simple yet powerful deep neural framework is developed. The proposed framework consists of two components: the feature extractor module and the 3D generator module. We use point cloud representation for the output of our reconstruction module. The ShapeNet dataset is utilized to compare the method with the existing results in terms of computation time and accuracy. Simulations demonstrate the superior performance of the proposed method. Index Terms-Real-time 3D reconstruction, single-view reconstruction, supervised learning, deep neural network

1026
3D Reconstruction using Structured Light from off-the-shelf components
2022-09-24
The coordinate measuring machine(CMM) has been the benchmark of accuracy in measuring solid objects from nearly past 50 years or more. However with the advent of 3D scanning technology, the accuracy and the density of point cloud generated has taken over. In this project we not only compare the different algorithms that can be used in a 3D scanning software, but also create our own 3D scanner from off-the-shelf components like camera and projector. Our objective has been : 1. To develop a prototype for 3D scanner to achieve a system that performs at optimal accuracy over a wide typology of objects. 2. To minimise the cost using off-the-shelf components. 3. To reach very close to the accuracy of CMM.

1027
OmniNeRF: Hybriding Omnidirectional Distance and Radiance fields for Neural Surface Reconstruction
2022-09-27
3D reconstruction from images has wide applications in Virtual Reality and Automatic Driving, where the precision requirement is very high. Ground-breaking research in the neural radiance field (NeRF) by utilizing Multi-Layer Perceptions has dramatically improved the representation quality of 3D objects. Some later studies improved NeRF by building truncated signed distance fields (TSDFs) but still suffer from the problem of blurred surfaces in 3D reconstruction. In this work, this surface ambiguity is addressed by proposing a novel way of 3D shape representation, OmniNeRF. It is based on training a hybrid implicit field of Omni-directional Distance Field (ODF) and neural radiance field, replacing the apparent density in NeRF with omnidirectional information. Moreover, we introduce additional supervision on the depth map to further improve reconstruction quality. The proposed method has been proven to effectively deal with NeRF defects at the edges of the surface reconstruction, providing higher quality 3D scene reconstruction results.

1028
DELTAR: Depth Estimation from a Light-weight ToF Sensor and RGB Image
2022-09-27
Light-weight time-of-flight (ToF) depth sensors are small, cheap, low-energy and have been massively deployed on mobile devices for the purposes like autofocus, obstacle detection, etc. However, due to their specific measurements (depth distribution in a region instead of the depth value at a certain pixel) and extremely low resolution, they are insufficient for applications requiring high-fidelity depth such as 3D reconstruction. In this paper, we propose DELTAR, a novel method to empower light-weight ToF sensors with the capability of measuring high resolution and accurate depth by cooperating with a color image. As the core of DELTAR, a feature extractor customized for depth distribution and an attention-based neural architecture is proposed to fuse the information from the color and ToF domain efficiently. To evaluate our system in real-world scenarios, we design a data collection device and propose a new approach to calibrate the RGB camera and ToF sensor. Experiments show that our method produces more accurate depth than existing frameworks designed for depth completion and depth super-resolution and achieves on par performance with a commodity-level RGB-D sensor. Code and data are available at https://zju3dv.github.io/deltar/.

1029
WaterNeRF: Neural Radiance Fields for Underwater Scenes
2022-09-27
Underwater imaging is a critical task performed by marine robots for a wide range of applications including aquaculture, marine infrastructure inspection, and environmental monitoring. However, water column effects, such as attenuation and backscattering, drastically change the color and quality of imagery captured underwater. Due to varying water conditions and range-dependency of these effects, restoring underwater imagery is a challenging problem. This impacts downstream perception tasks including depth estimation and 3D reconstruction. In this paper, we advance state-of-the-art in neural radiance fields (NeRFs) to enable physics-informed dense depth estimation and color correction. Our proposed method, WaterNeRF, estimates parameters of a physics-based model for underwater image formation, leading to a hybrid data-driven and model-based solution. After determining the scene structure and radiance field, we can produce novel views of degraded as well as corrected underwater images, along with dense depth of the scene. We evaluate the proposed method qualitatively and quantitatively on a real underwater dataset.

1030
Sphere-Guided Training of Neural Implicit Surfaces
2022-09-30
In recent years, neural distance functions trained via volumetric ray marching have been widely adopted for multi-view 3D reconstruction. These methods, however, apply the ray marching procedure for the entire scene volume, leading to reduced sampling efficiency and, as a result, lower reconstruction quality in the areas of high-frequency details. In this work, we address this problem via joint training of the implicit function and our new coarse sphere-based surface reconstruction. We use the coarse representation to efficiently exclude the empty volume of the scene from the volumetric ray marching procedure without additional forward passes of the neural surface network, which leads to an increased fidelity of the reconstructions compared to the base systems. We evaluate our approach by incorporating it into the training procedures of several implicit surface modeling methods and observe uniform improvements across both synthetic and real-world datasets. Our codebase can be accessed via the project page: https://andreeadogaru.github.io/SphereGuided

1031
Semi-Supervised Single-View 3D Reconstruction via Prototype Shape Priors
2022-09-30
The performance of existing single-view 3D reconstruction methods heavily relies on large-scale 3D annotations. However, such annotations are tedious and expensive to collect. Semi-supervised learning serves as an alternative way to mitigate the need for manual labels, but remains unexplored in 3D reconstruction. Inspired by the recent success of semi-supervised image classification tasks, we propose SSP3D, a semi-supervised framework for 3D reconstruction. In particular, we introduce an attention-guided prototype shape prior module for guiding realistic object reconstruction. We further introduce a discriminator-guided module to incentivize better shape generation, as well as a regularizer to tolerate noisy training samples. On the ShapeNet benchmark, the proposed approach outperforms previous supervised methods by clear margins under various labeling ratios, (i.e., 1%, 5% , 10% and 20%). Moreover, our approach also performs well when transferring to real-world Pix3D datasets under labeling ratios of 10%. We also demonstrate our method could transfer to novel categories with few novel supervised data. Experiments on the popular ShapeNet dataset show that our method outperforms the zero-shot baseline by over 12% and we also perform rigorous ablations and analysis to validate our approach.

1032
MonoNeuralFusion: Online Monocular Neural 3D Reconstruction with Geometric Priors
2022-09-30
High-fidelity 3D scene reconstruction from monocular videos continues to be challenging, especially for complete and fine-grained geometry reconstruction. The previous 3D reconstruction approaches with neural implicit representations have shown a promising ability for complete scene reconstruction, while their results are often over-smooth and lack enough geometric details. This paper introduces a novel neural implicit scene representation with volume rendering for high-fidelity online 3D scene reconstruction from monocular videos. For fine-grained reconstruction, our key insight is to incorporate geometric priors into both the neural implicit scene representation and neural volume rendering, thus leading to an effective geometry learning mechanism based on volume rendering optimization. Benefiting from this, we present MonoNeuralFusion to perform the online neural 3D reconstruction from monocular videos, by which the 3D scene geometry is efficiently generated and optimized during the on-the-fly 3D monocular scanning. The extensive comparisons with state-of-the-art approaches show that our MonoNeuralFusion consistently generates much better complete and fine-grained reconstruction results, both quantitatively and qualitatively.

1033
NeRF: Neural Radiance Field in 3D Vision, A Comprehensive Review
2022-10-01
Neural Radiance Field (NeRF), a new novel view synthesis with implicit scene representation has taken the field of Computer Vision by storm. As a novel view synthesis and 3D reconstruction method, NeRF models find applications in robotics, urban mapping, autonomous navigation, virtual reality/augmented reality, and more. Since the original paper by Mildenhall et al., more than 250 preprints were published, with more than 100 eventually being accepted in tier one Computer Vision Conferences. Given NeRF popularity and the current interest in this research area, we believe it necessary to compile a comprehensive survey of NeRF papers from the past two years, which we organized into both architecture, and application based taxonomies. We also provide an introduction to the theory of NeRF based novel view synthesis, and a benchmark comparison of the performance and speed of key NeRF models. By creating this survey, we hope to introduce new researchers to NeRF, provide a helpful reference for influential works in this field, as well as motivate future research directions with our discussion section.

1034
OCD: Learning to Overfit with Conditional Diffusion Models
2022-10-02
We present a dynamic model in which the weights are conditioned on an input sample x and are learned to match those that would be obtained by finetuning a base model on x and its label y. This mapping between an input sample and network weights is approximated by a denoising diffusion model. The diffusion model we employ focuses on modifying a single layer of the base model and is conditioned on the input, activations, and output of this layer. Since the diffusion model is stochastic in nature, multiple initializations generate different networks, forming an ensemble, which leads to further improvements. Our experiments demonstrate the wide applicability of the method for image classification, 3D reconstruction, tabular data, speech separation, and natural language processing. Our code is available at https://github.com/ShaharLutatiPersonal/OCD

1035
MBW: Multi-view Bootstrapping in the Wild
2022-10-04
Labeling articulated objects in unconstrained settings have a wide variety of applications including entertainment, neuroscience, psychology, ethology, and many fields of medicine. Large offline labeled datasets do not exist for all but the most common articulated object categories (e.g., humans). Hand labeling these landmarks within a video sequence is a laborious task. Learned landmark detectors can help, but can be error-prone when trained from only a few examples. Multi-camera systems that train fine-grained detectors have shown significant promise in detecting such errors, allowing for self-supervised solutions that only need a small percentage of the video sequence to be hand-labeled. The approach, however, is based on calibrated cameras and rigid geometry, making it expensive, difficult to manage, and impractical in real-world scenarios. In this paper, we address these bottlenecks by combining a non-rigid 3D neural prior with deep flow to obtain high-fidelity landmark estimates from videos with only two or three uncalibrated, handheld cameras. With just a few annotations (representing 1-2% of the frames), we are able to produce 2D results comparable to state-of-the-art fully supervised methods, along with 3D reconstructions that are impossible with other existing approaches. Our Multi-view Bootstrapping in the Wild (MBW) approach demonstrates impressive results on standard human datasets, as well as tigers, cheetahs, fish, colobus monkeys, chimpanzees, and flamingos from videos captured casually in a zoo. We release the codebase for MBW as well as this challenging zoo dataset consisting image frames of tail-end distribution categories with their corresponding 2D, 3D labels generated from minimal human intervention.

1036
Joint Reconstruction and Parcellation of Cortical Surfaces
2022-09-19
The reconstruction of cerebral cortex surfaces from brain MRI scans is instrumental for the analysis of brain morphology and the detection of cortical thinning in neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's disease (AD). Moreover, for a fine-grained analysis of atrophy patterns, the parcellation of the cortical surfaces into individual brain regions is required. For the former task, powerful deep learning approaches, which provide highly accurate brain surfaces of tissue boundaries from input MRI scans in seconds, have recently been proposed. However, these methods do not come with the ability to provide a parcellation of the reconstructed surfaces. Instead, separate brain-parcellation methods have been developed, which typically consider the cortical surfaces as given, often computed beforehand with FreeSurfer. In this work, we propose two options, one based on a graph classification branch and another based on a novel generic 3D reconstruction loss, to augment template-deformation algorithms such that the surface meshes directly come with an atlas-based brain parcellation. By combining both options with two of the latest cortical surface reconstruction algorithms, we attain highly accurate parcellations with a Dice score of 90.2 (graph classification branch) and 90.4 (novel reconstruction loss) together with state-of-the-art surfaces.

1037
SHINE-Mapping: Large-Scale 3D Mapping Using Sparse Hierarchical Implicit Neural Representations
2022-10-05
Accurate mapping of large-scale environments is an essential building block of most outdoor autonomous systems. Challenges of traditional mapping methods include the balance between memory consumption and mapping accuracy. This paper addresses the problem of achieving large-scale 3D reconstruction using implicit representations built from 3D LiDAR measurements. We learn and store implicit features through an octree-based, hierarchical structure, which is sparse and extensible. The implicit features can be turned into signed distance values through a shallow neural network. We leverage binary cross entropy loss to optimize the local features with the 3D measurements as supervision. Based on our implicit representation, we design an incremental mapping system with regularization to tackle the issue of forgetting in continual learning. Our experiments show that our 3D reconstructions are more accurate, complete, and memory-efficient than current state-of-the-art 3D mapping methods.

1038
Floorplan-Aware Camera Poses Refinement
2022-10-10
Processing large indoor scenes is a challenging task, as scan registration and camera trajectory estimation methods accumulate errors across time. As a result, the quality of reconstructed scans is insufficient for some applications, such as visual-based localization and navigation, where the correct position of walls is crucial. For many indoor scenes, there exists an image of a technical floorplan that contains information about the geometry and main structural elements of the scene, such as walls, partitions, and doors. We argue that such a floorplan is a useful source of spatial information, which can guide a 3D model optimization. The standard RGB-D 3D reconstruction pipeline consists of a tracking module applied to an RGB-D sequence and a bundle adjustment (BA) module that takes the posed RGB-D sequence and corrects the camera poses to improve consistency. We propose a novel optimization algorithm expanding conventional BA that leverages the prior knowledge about the scene structure in the form of a floorplan. Our experiments on the Redwood dataset and our self-captured data demonstrate that utilizing floorplan improves accuracy of 3D reconstructions.

1039
3D Reconstruction of Sculptures from Single Images via Unsupervised Domain Adaptation on Implicit Models
2022-10-09
Acquiring the virtual equivalent of exhibits, such as sculptures, in virtual reality (VR) museums, can be labour-intensive and sometimes infeasible. Deep learning based 3D reconstruction approaches allow us to recover 3D shapes from 2D observations, among which single-view-based approaches can reduce the need for human intervention and specialised equipment in acquiring 3D sculptures for VR museums. However, there exist two challenges when attempting to use the well-researched human reconstruction methods: limited data availability and domain shift. Considering sculptures are usually related to humans, we propose our unsupervised 3D domain adaptation method for adapting a single-view 3D implicit reconstruction model from the source (real-world humans) to the target (sculptures) domain. We have compared the generated shapes with other methods and conducted ablation studies as well as a user study to demonstrate the effectiveness of our adaptation method. We also deploy our results in a VR application.

1040
DeepMLE: A Robust Deep Maximum Likelihood Estimator for Two-view Structure from Motion
2022-10-11
Two-view structure from motion (SfM) is the cornerstone of 3D reconstruction and visual SLAM (vSLAM). Many existing end-to-end learning-based methods usually formulate it as a brute regression problem. However, the inadequate utilization of traditional geometry model makes the model not robust in unseen environments. To improve the generalization capability and robustness of end-to-end two-view SfM network, we formulate the two-view SfM problem as a maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) and solve it with the proposed framework, denoted as DeepMLE. First, we propose to take the deep multi-scale correlation maps to depict the visual similarities of 2D image matches decided by ego-motion. In addition, in order to increase the robustness of our framework, we formulate the likelihood function of the correlations of 2D image matches as a Gaussian and Uniform mixture distribution which takes the uncertainty caused by illumination changes, image noise and moving objects into account. Meanwhile, an uncertainty prediction module is presented to predict the pixel-wise distribution parameters. Finally, we iteratively refine the depth and relative camera pose using the gradient-like information to maximize the likelihood function of the correlations. Extensive experimental results on several datasets prove that our method significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art end-to-end two-view SfM approaches in accuracy and generalization capability.

1041
Visual Language Maps for Robot Navigation
2022-10-11
Grounding language to the visual observations of a navigating agent can be performed using off-the-shelf visual-language models pretrained on Internet-scale data (e.g., image captions). While this is useful for matching images to natural language descriptions of object goals, it remains disjoint from the process of mapping the environment, so that it lacks the spatial precision of classic geometric maps. To address this problem, we propose VLMaps, a spatial map representation that directly fuses pretrained visual-language features with a 3D reconstruction of the physical world. VLMaps can be autonomously built from video feed on robots using standard exploration approaches and enables natural language indexing of the map without additional labeled data. Specifically, when combined with large language models (LLMs), VLMaps can be used to (i) translate natural language commands into a sequence of open-vocabulary navigation goals (which, beyond prior work, can be spatial by construction, e.g., "in between the sofa and TV" or "three meters to the right of the chair") directly localized in the map, and (ii) can be shared among multiple robots with different embodiments to generate new obstacle maps on-the-fly (by using a list of obstacle categories). Extensive experiments carried out in simulated and real world environments show that VLMaps enable navigation according to more complex language instructions than existing methods. Videos are available at https://vlmaps.github.io.

1042
3D GAN Inversion with Pose Optimization
2022-10-13
With the recent advances in NeRF-based 3D aware GANs quality, projecting an image into the latent space of these 3D-aware GANs has a natural advantage over 2D GAN inversion: not only does it allow multi-view consistent editing of the projected image, but it also enables 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis when given only a single image. However, the explicit viewpoint control acts as a main hindrance in the 3D GAN inversion process, as both camera pose and latent code have to be optimized simultaneously to reconstruct the given image. Most works that explore the latent space of the 3D-aware GANs rely on ground-truth camera viewpoint or deformable 3D model, thus limiting their applicability. In this work, we introduce a generalizable 3D GAN inversion method that infers camera viewpoint and latent code simultaneously to enable multi-view consistent semantic image editing. The key to our approach is to leverage pre-trained estimators for better initialization and utilize the pixel-wise depth calculated from NeRF parameters to better reconstruct the given image. We conduct extensive experiments on image reconstruction and editing both quantitatively and qualitatively, and further compare our results with 2D GAN-based editing to demonstrate the advantages of utilizing the latent space of 3D GANs. Additional results and visualizations are available at https://3dgan-inversion.github.io .

1043
PCGen: Point Cloud Generator for LiDAR Simulation
2022-10-17
Data is a fundamental building block for LiDAR perception systems. Unfortunately, real-world data collection and annotation is extremely costly & laborious. Recently, real data based LiDAR simulators have shown tremendous potential to complement real data, due to their scalability and high-fidelity compared to graphics engine based methods. Before simulation can be deployed in the real-world, two shortcomings need to be addressed. First, existing methods usually generate data which are more noisy and complete than the real point clouds, due to 3D reconstruction error and pure geometry-based raycasting method. Second, prior works on simulation for object detection focus solely on rigid objects, like cars, but VRUs, like pedestrians, are important road participants. To tackle the first challenge, we propose FPA raycasting and surrogate model raydrop. FPA enables the simulation of both point cloud coordinates and sensor features, while taking into account reconstruction noise. The ray-wise surrogate raydrop model mimics the physical properties of LiDAR's laser receiver to determine whether a simulated point would be recorded by a real LiDAR. With minimal training data, the surrogate model can generalize to different geographies and scenes, closing the domain gap between raycasted and real point clouds. To tackle the simulation of deformable VRU simulation, we employ SMPL dataset to provide a pedestrian simulation baseline and compare the domain gap between CAD and reconstructed objects. Applying our pipeline to perform novel sensor synthesis, results show that object detection models trained by simulation data can achieve similar result as the real data trained model.

1044
SPIDR: SDF-based Neural Point Fields for Illumination and Deformation
2022-10-15
Neural radiance fields (NeRFs) have recently emerged as a promising approach for 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis. However, NeRF-based methods encode shape, reflectance, and illumination implicitly and this makes it challenging for users to manipulate these properties in the rendered images explicitly. Existing approaches only enable limited editing of the scene and deformation of the geometry. Furthermore, no existing work enables accurate scene illumination after object deformation. In this work, we introduce SPIDR, a new hybrid neural SDF representation. SPIDR combines point cloud and neural implicit representations to enable the reconstruction of higher quality object surfaces for geometry deformation and lighting estimation. meshes and surfaces for object deformation and lighting estimation. To more accurately capture environment illumination for scene relighting, we propose a novel neural implicit model to learn environment light. To enable more accurate illumination updates after deformation, we use the shadow mapping technique to approximate the light visibility updates caused by geometry editing. We demonstrate the effectiveness of SPIDR in enabling high quality geometry editing with more accurate updates to the illumination of the scene.

1045
Pruning-based Topology Refinement of 3D Mesh using a 2D Alpha Mask
2022-10-17
Image-based 3D reconstruction has increasingly stunning results over the past few years with the latest improvements in computer vision and graphics. Geometry and topology are two fundamental concepts when dealing with 3D mesh structures. But the latest often remains a side issue in the 3D mesh-based reconstruction literature. Indeed, performing per-vertex elementary displacements over a 3D sphere mesh only impacts its geometry and leaves the topological structure unchanged and fixed. Whereas few attempts propose to update the geometry and the topology, all need to lean on costly 3D ground-truth to determine the faces/edges to prune. We present in this work a method that aims to refine the topology of any 3D mesh through a face-pruning strategy that extensively relies upon 2D alpha masks and camera pose information. Our solution leverages a differentiable renderer that renders each face as a 2D soft map. Its pixel intensity reflects the probability of being covered during the rendering process by such a face. Based on the 2D soft-masks available, our method is thus able to quickly highlight all the incorrectly rendered faces for a given viewpoint. Because our module is agnostic to the network that produces the 3D mesh, it can be easily plugged into any self-supervised image-based (either synthetic or natural) 3D reconstruction pipeline to get complex meshes with a non-spherical topology.

1046
Bidirectional Semi-supervised Dual-branch CNN for Robust 3D Reconstruction of Stereo Endoscopic Images via Adaptive Cross and Parallel Supervisions
2022-10-15
Semi-supervised learning via teacher-student network can train a model effectively on a few labeled samples. It enables a student model to distill knowledge from the teacher's predictions of extra unlabeled data. However, such knowledge flow is typically unidirectional, having the performance vulnerable to the quality of teacher model. In this paper, we seek to robust 3D reconstruction of stereo endoscopic images by proposing a novel fashion of bidirectional learning between two learners, each of which can play both roles of teacher and student concurrently. Specifically, we introduce two self-supervisions, i.e., Adaptive Cross Supervision (ACS) and Adaptive Parallel Supervision (APS), to learn a dual-branch convolutional neural network. The two branches predict two different disparity probability distributions for the same position, and output their expectations as disparity values. The learned knowledge flows across branches along two directions: a cross direction (disparity guides distribution in ACS) and a parallel direction (disparity guides disparity in APS). Moreover, each branch also learns confidences to dynamically refine its provided supervisions. In ACS, the predicted disparity is softened into a unimodal distribution, and the lower the confidence, the smoother the distribution. In APS, the incorrect predictions are suppressed by lowering the weights of those with low confidence. With the adaptive bidirectional learning, the two branches enjoy well-tuned supervisions, and eventually converge on a consistent and more accurate disparity estimation. The extensive and comprehensive experimental results on four public datasets demonstrate our superior performance over other state-of-the-arts with a relative decrease of averaged disparity error by at least 9.76%.

1047
Scrape, Cut, Paste and Learn: Automated Dataset Generation Applied to Parcel Logistics
2022-10-18
State-of-the-art approaches in computer vision heavily rely on sufficiently large training datasets. For real-world applications, obtaining such a dataset is usually a tedious task. In this paper, we present a fully automated pipeline to generate a synthetic dataset for instance segmentation in four steps. In contrast to existing work, our pipeline covers every step from data acquisition to the final dataset. We first scrape images for the objects of interest from popular image search engines and since we rely only on text-based queries the resulting data comprises a wide variety of images. Hence, image selection is necessary as a second step. This approach of image scraping and selection relaxes the need for a real-world domain-specific dataset that must be either publicly available or created for this purpose. We employ an object-agnostic background removal model and compare three different methods for image selection: Object-agnostic pre-processing, manual image selection and CNN-based image selection. In the third step, we generate random arrangements of the object of interest and distractors on arbitrary backgrounds. Finally, the composition of the images is done by pasting the objects using four different blending methods. We present a case study for our dataset generation approach by considering parcel segmentation. For the evaluation we created a dataset of parcel photos that were annotated automatically. We find that (1) our dataset generation pipeline allows a successful transfer to real test images (Mask AP 86.2), (2) a very accurate image selection process - in contrast to human intuition - is not crucial and a broader category definition can help to bridge the domain gap, (3) the usage of blending methods is beneficial compared to simple copy-and-paste. We made our full code for scraping, image composition and training publicly available at https://a-nau.github.io/parcel2d.

1048
Multi-View Guided Multi-View Stereo
2022-10-20
This paper introduces a novel deep framework for dense 3D reconstruction from multiple image frames, leveraging a sparse set of depth measurements gathered jointly with image acquisition. Given a deep multi-view stereo network, our framework uses sparse depth hints to guide the neural network by modulating the plane-sweep cost volume built during the forward step, enabling us to infer constantly much more accurate depth maps. Moreover, since multiple viewpoints can provide additional depth measurements, we propose a multi-view guidance strategy that increases the density of the sparse points used to guide the network, thus leading to even more accurate results. We evaluate our Multi-View Guided framework within a variety of state-of-the-art deep multi-view stereo networks, demonstrating its effectiveness at improving the results achieved by each of them on BlendedMVG and DTU datasets.

1049
One-Shot Neural Fields for 3D Object Understanding
2022-10-21
We present a unified and compact scene representation for robotics, where each object in the scene is depicted by a latent code capturing geometry and appearance. This representation can be decoded for various tasks such as novel view rendering, 3D reconstruction (e.g. recovering depth, point clouds, or voxel maps), collision checking, and stable grasp prediction. We build our representation from a single RGB input image at test time by leveraging recent advances in Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) that learn category-level priors on large multiview datasets, then fine-tune on novel objects from one or few views. We expand the NeRF model for additional grasp outputs and explore ways to leverage this representation for robotics. At test-time, we build the representation from a single RGB input image observing the scene from only one viewpoint. We find that the recovered representation allows rendering from novel views, including of occluded object parts, and also for predicting successful stable grasps. Grasp poses can be directly decoded from our latent representation with an implicit grasp decoder. We experimented in both simulation and real world and demonstrated the capability for robust robotic grasping using such compact representation. Website: https://nerfgrasp.github.io

1050
Learning Neural Radiance Fields from Multi-View Geometry
2022-10-24
We present a framework, called MVG-NeRF, that combines classical Multi-View Geometry algorithms and Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) for image-based 3D reconstruction. NeRF has revolutionized the field of implicit 3D representations, mainly due to a differentiable volumetric rendering formulation that enables high-quality and geometry-aware novel view synthesis. However, the underlying geometry of the scene is not explicitly constrained during training, thus leading to noisy and incorrect results when extracting a mesh with marching cubes. To this end, we propose to leverage pixelwise depths and normals from a classical 3D reconstruction pipeline as geometric priors to guide NeRF optimization. Such priors are used as pseudo-ground truth during training in order to improve the quality of the estimated underlying surface. Moreover, each pixel is weighted by a confidence value based on the forward-backward reprojection error for additional robustness. Experimental results on real-world data demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach in obtaining clean 3D meshes from images, while maintaining competitive performances in novel view synthesis.

1051
3D Reconstruction of unstained cells from a single defocused hologram
2022-10-23
We investigate the problem of 3D complex field reconstruction corresponding to unstained red blood cells (RBCs) with a single defocused off-axis digital hologram. We employ recently introduced mean gradient descent (MGD) optimization framework, to solve the 3D recovery problem. While investigating volume recovery problem for a continuous phase object like RBC, we came across an interesting feature of the back-propagated field that it does not show clear focusing effect. Therefore the sparsity enforcement within the iterative optimization framework given the single hologram data cannot effectively restrict the true object volume. For phase objects, it is known that the amplitude contrast of the back-propagated object field at the focus plane is minimum and it increases at the defocus planes. We therefore use this information available in the detector field data to device weights as a function of inverse of amplitude contrast. This weight function is employed in the iterative steps of the optimization algorithm to assist the object volume localization. The experimental illustrations of 3D volume reconstruction of the healthy as well as the malaria infected RBCs are presented. The proposed methodology is simple to implement experimentally and provides an approximate tomographic solution which is axially restricted and is consistent with the object field data.

1052
Deep-MDS Framework for Recovering the 3D Shape of 2D Landmarks from a Single Image
2022-10-27
In this paper, a low parameter deep learning framework utilizing the Non-metric Multi-Dimensional scaling (NMDS) method, is proposed to recover the 3D shape of 2D landmarks on a human face, in a single input image. Hence, NMDS approach is used for the first time to establish a mapping from a 2D landmark space to the corresponding 3D shape space. A deep neural network learns the pairwise dissimilarity among 2D landmarks, used by NMDS approach, whose objective is to learn the pairwise 3D Euclidean distance of the corresponding 2D landmarks on the input image. This scheme results in a symmetric dissimilarity matrix, with the rank larger than 2, leading the NMDS approach toward appropriately recovering the 3D shape of corresponding 2D landmarks. In the case of posed images and complex image formation processes like perspective projection which causes occlusion in the input image, we consider an autoencoder component in the proposed framework, as an occlusion removal part, which turns different input views of the human face into a profile view. The results of a performance evaluation using different synthetic and real-world human face datasets, including Besel Face Model (BFM), CelebA, CoMA - FLAME, and CASIA-3D, indicates the comparable performance of the proposed framework, despite its small number of training parameters, with the related state-of-the-art and powerful 3D reconstruction methods from the literature, in terms of efficiency and accuracy.

1053
State of the Art in Dense Monocular Non-Rigid 3D Reconstruction
2022-10-27
3D reconstruction of deformable (or non-rigid) scenes from a set of monocular 2D image observations is a long-standing and actively researched area of computer vision and graphics. It is an ill-posed inverse problem, since -- without additional prior assumptions -- it permits infinitely many solutions leading to accurate projection to the input 2D images. Non-rigid reconstruction is a foundational building block for downstream applications like robotics, AR/VR, or visual content creation. The key advantage of using monocular cameras is their omnipresence and availability to the end users as well as their ease of use compared to more sophisticated camera set-ups such as stereo or multi-view systems. This survey focuses on state-of-the-art methods for dense non-rigid 3D reconstruction of various deformable objects and composite scenes from monocular videos or sets of monocular views. It reviews the fundamentals of 3D reconstruction and deformation modeling from 2D image observations. We then start from general methods -- that handle arbitrary scenes and make only a few prior assumptions -- and proceed towards techniques making stronger assumptions about the observed objects and types of deformations (e.g. human faces, bodies, hands, and animals). A significant part of this STAR is also devoted to classification and a high-level comparison of the methods, as well as an overview of the datasets for training and evaluation of the discussed techniques. We conclude by discussing open challenges in the field and the social aspects associated with the usage of the reviewed methods.

1054
Semantic-SuPer: A Semantic-aware Surgical Perception Framework for Endoscopic Tissue Identification, Reconstruction, and Tracking
2022-10-29
Accurate and robust tracking and reconstruction of the surgical scene is a critical enabling technology toward autonomous robotic surgery. Existing algorithms for 3D perception in surgery mainly rely on geometric information, while we propose to also leverage semantic information inferred from the endoscopic video using image segmentation algorithms. In this paper, we present a novel, comprehensive surgical perception framework, Semantic-SuPer, that integrates geometric and semantic information to facilitate data association, 3D reconstruction, and tracking of endoscopic scenes, benefiting downstream tasks like surgical navigation. The proposed framework is demonstrated on challenging endoscopic data with deforming tissue, showing its advantages over our baseline and several other state-of the-art approaches. Our code and dataset are available at https://github.com/ucsdarclab/Python-SuPer.

1055
3D Reconstruction of Multiple Objects by mmWave Radar on UAV
2022-11-03
In this paper, we explore the feasibility of utilizing a mmWave radar sensor installed on a UAV to reconstruct the 3D shapes of multiple objects in a space. The UAV hovers at various locations in the space, and its onboard radar senor collects raw radar data via scanning the space with Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) operation. The radar data is sent to a deep neural network model, which outputs the point cloud reconstruction of the multiple objects in the space. We evaluate two different models. Model 1 is our recently proposed 3DRIMR/R2P model, and Model 2 is formed by adding a segmentation stage in the processing pipeline of Model 1. Our experiments have demonstrated that both models are promising in solving the multiple object reconstruction problem. We also show that Model 2, despite producing denser and smoother point clouds, can lead to higher reconstruction loss or even loss of objects. In addition, we find that both models are robust to the highly noisy radar data obtained by unstable SAR operation due to the instability or vibration of a small UAV hovering at its intended scanning point. Our exploratory study has shown a promising direction of applying mmWave radar sensing in 3D object reconstruction.

1056
GARNet: Global-Aware Multi-View 3D Reconstruction Network and the Cost-Performance Tradeoff
2022-11-04
Deep learning technology has made great progress in multi-view 3D reconstruction tasks. At present, most mainstream solutions establish the mapping between views and shape of an object by assembling the networks of 2D encoder and 3D decoder as the basic structure while they adopt different approaches to obtain aggregation of features from several views. Among them, the methods using attention-based fusion perform better and more stable than the others, however, they still have an obvious shortcoming -- the strong independence of each view during predicting the weights for merging leads to a lack of adaption of the global state. In this paper, we propose a global-aware attention-based fusion approach that builds the correlation between each branch and the global to provide a comprehensive foundation for weights inference. In order to enhance the ability of the network, we introduce a novel loss function to supervise the shape overall and propose a dynamic two-stage training strategy that can effectively adapt to all reconstructors with attention-based fusion. Experiments on ShapeNet verify that our method outperforms existing SOTA methods while the amount of parameters is far less than the same type of algorithm, Pix2Vox++. Furthermore, we propose a view-reduction method based on maximizing diversity and discuss the cost-performance tradeoff of our model to achieve a better performance when facing heavy input amount and limited computational cost.

1057
Common Pets in 3D: Dynamic New-View Synthesis of Real-Life Deformable Categories
2022-11-07
Obtaining photorealistic reconstructions of objects from sparse views is inherently ambiguous and can only be achieved by learning suitable reconstruction priors. Earlier works on sparse rigid object reconstruction successfully learned such priors from large datasets such as CO3D. In this paper, we extend this approach to dynamic objects. We use cats and dogs as a representative example and introduce Common Pets in 3D (CoP3D), a collection of crowd-sourced videos showing around 4,200 distinct pets. CoP3D is one of the first large-scale datasets for benchmarking non-rigid 3D reconstruction "in the wild". We also propose Tracker-NeRF, a method for learning 4D reconstruction from our dataset. At test time, given a small number of video frames of an unseen object, Tracker-NeRF predicts the trajectories of its 3D points and generates new views, interpolating viewpoint and time. Results on CoP3D reveal significantly better non-rigid new-view synthesis performance than existing baselines.

1058
HOReeNet: 3D-aware Hand-Object Grasping Reenactment
2022-11-11
We present HOReeNet, which tackles the novel task of manipulating images involving hands, objects, and their interactions. Especially, we are interested in transferring objects of source images to target images and manipulating 3D hand postures to tightly grasp the transferred objects. Furthermore, the manipulation needs to be reflected in the 2D image space. In our reenactment scenario involving hand-object interactions, 3D reconstruction becomes essential as 3D contact reasoning between hands and objects is required to achieve a tight grasp. At the same time, to obtain high-quality 2D images from 3D space, well-designed 3D-to-2D projection and image refinement are required. Our HOReeNet is the first fully differentiable framework proposed for such a task. On hand-object interaction datasets, we compared our HOReeNet to the conventional image translation algorithms and reenactment algorithm. We demonstrated that our approach could achieved the state-of-the-art on the proposed task.

1059
Detecting Line Segments in Motion-blurred Images with Events
2022-11-14
Making line segment detectors more reliable under motion blurs is one of the most important challenges for practical applications, such as visual SLAM and 3D reconstruction. Existing line segment detection methods face severe performance degradation for accurately detecting and locating line segments when motion blur occurs. While event data shows strong complementary characteristics to images for minimal blur and edge awareness at high-temporal resolution, potentially beneficial for reliable line segment recognition. To robustly detect line segments over motion blurs, we propose to leverage the complementary information of images and events. To achieve this, we first design a general frame-event feature fusion network to extract and fuse the detailed image textures and low-latency event edges, which consists of a channel-attention-based shallow fusion module and a self-attention-based dual hourglass module. We then utilize two state-of-the-art wireframe parsing networks to detect line segments on the fused feature map. Besides, we contribute a synthetic and a realistic dataset for line segment detection, i.e., FE-Wireframe and FE-Blurframe, with pairwise motion-blurred images and events. Extensive experiments on both datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. When tested on the real dataset, our method achieves 63.3% mean structural average precision (msAP) with the model pre-trained on the FE-Wireframe and fine-tuned on the FE-Blurframe, improved by 32.6 and 11.3 points compared with models trained on synthetic only and real only, respectively. The codes, datasets, and trained models are released at: https://levenberg.github.io/FE-LSD

1060
Controllable GAN Synthesis Using Non-Rigid Structure-from-Motion
2022-11-14
In this paper, we present an approach for combining non-rigid structure-from-motion (NRSfM) with deep generative models,and propose an efficient framework for discovering trajectories in the latent space of 2D GANs corresponding to changes in 3D geometry. Our approach uses recent advances in NRSfM and enables editing of the camera and non-rigid shape information associated with the latent codes without needing to retrain the generator. This formulation provides an implicit dense 3D reconstruction as it enables the image synthesis of novel shapes from arbitrary view angles and non-rigid structure. The method is built upon a sparse backbone, where a neural regressor is first trained to regress parameters describing the cameras and sparse non-rigid structure directly from the latent codes. The latent trajectories associated with changes in the camera and structure parameters are then identified by estimating the local inverse of the regressor in the neighborhood of a given latent code. The experiments show that our approach provides a versatile, systematic way to model, analyze, and edit the geometry and non-rigid structures of faces.

1061
FIRES: Fast Imaging and 3D Reconstruction of Archaeological Sherds
2022-11-13
Sherds, as the most common artifacts uncovered during archaeological excavations, carry rich information about past human societies so need to be accurately reconstructed and recorded digitally for analysis and preservation. Often hundreds of fragments are uncovered in a day at an archaeological excavation site, far beyond the scanning capacity of existing imaging systems. Hence, there is high demand for a desirable image acquisition system capable of imaging hundreds of fragments per day. In response to this demand, we developed a new system, dubbed FIRES, for Fast Imaging and 3D REconstruction of Sherds. The FIRES system consists of two main components. The first is an optimally designed fast image acquisition device capable of capturing over 700 sherds per day (in 8 working hours) in actual tests at an excavation site, which is one order-of-magnitude faster than existing systems. The second component is an automatic pipeline for 3D reconstruction of the sherds from the images captured by the imaging acquisition system, achieving reconstruction accuracy of 0.16 milimeters. The pipeline includes a novel batch matching algorithm that matches partial 3D scans of the front and back sides of the sherds and a new ICP-type method that registers the front and back sides sharing very narrow overlapping regions. Extensive validation in labs and testing in excavation sites demonstrated that our FIRES system provides the first fast, accurate, portal, and cost-effective solution for the task of imaging and 3D reconstruction of sherds in archaeological excavations.

1062
3D Reconstruction-Based Seed Counting of Sorghum Panicles for Agricultural Inspection
2022-11-14
In this paper, we present a method for creating high-quality 3D models of sorghum panicles for phenotyping in breeding experiments. This is achieved with a novel reconstruction approach that uses seeds as semantic landmarks in both 2D and 3D. To evaluate the performance, we develop a new metric for assessing the quality of reconstructed point clouds without having a ground-truth point cloud. Finally, a counting method is presented where the density of seed centers in the 3D model allows 2D counts from multiple views to be effectively combined into a whole-panicle count. We demonstrate that using this method to estimate seed count and weight for sorghum outperforms count extrapolation from 2D images, an approach used in most state of the art methods for seeds and grains of comparable size.

1063
Semantic keypoint extraction for scanned animals using multi-depth-camera systems
2022-11-16
Keypoint annotation in point clouds is an important task for 3D reconstruction, object tracking and alignment, in particular in deformable or moving scenes. In the context of agriculture robotics, it is a critical task for livestock automation to work toward condition assessment or behaviour recognition. In this work, we propose a novel approach for semantic keypoint annotation in point clouds, by reformulating the keypoint extraction as a regression problem of the distance between the keypoints and the rest of the point cloud. We use the distance on the point cloud manifold mapped into a radial basis function (RBF), which is then learned using an encoder-decoder architecture. Special consideration is given to the data augmentation specific to multi-depth-camera systems by considering noise over the extrinsic calibration and camera frame dropout. Additionally, we investigate computationally efficient non-rigid deformation methods that can be applied to animal point clouds. Our method is tested on data collected in the field, on moving beef cattle, with a calibrated system of multiple hardware-synchronised RGB-D cameras.

1064
Physics-informed neural networks for gravity currents reconstruction from limited data
2022-11-03
The present work investigates the use of physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) for the 3D reconstruction of unsteady gravity currents from limited data. In the PINN context, the flow fields are reconstructed by training a neural network whose objective function penalizes the mismatch between the network predictions and the observed data and embeds the underlying equations using automatic differentiation. This study relies on a high-fidelity numerical experiment of the canonical lock-exchange configuration. This allows us to benchmark quantitatively the PINNs reconstruction capabilities on several training databases that mimic state-of-the-art experimental measurement techniques for density and velocity. Notably, spatially averaged density measurements by light attenuation technique (LAT) are employed for the training procedure. An optimal experimental setup for flow reconstruction by PINNs is proposed according to two criteria : the implementation complexity and the accuracy of the inferred fields.

1065
RenderDiffusion: Image Diffusion for 3D Reconstruction, Inpainting and Generation
2022-11-17
Diffusion models currently achieve state-of-the-art performance for both conditional and unconditional image generation. However, so far, image diffusion models do not support tasks required for 3D understanding, such as view-consistent 3D generation or single-view object reconstruction. In this paper, we present RenderDiffusion, the first diffusion model for 3D generation and inference, trained using only monocular 2D supervision. Central to our method is a novel image denoising architecture that generates and renders an intermediate three-dimensional representation of a scene in each denoising step. This enforces a strong inductive structure within the diffusion process, providing a 3D consistent representation while only requiring 2D supervision. The resulting 3D representation can be rendered from any view. We evaluate RenderDiffusion on FFHQ, AFHQ, ShapeNet and CLEVR datasets, showing competitive performance for generation of 3D scenes and inference of 3D scenes from 2D images. Additionally, our diffusion-based approach allows us to use 2D inpainting to edit 3D scenes.

1066
Shape, Pose, and Appearance from a Single Image via Bootstrapped Radiance Field Inversion
2022-11-21
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) coupled with GANs represent a promising direction in the area of 3D reconstruction from a single view, owing to their ability to efficiently model arbitrary topologies. Recent work in this area, however, has mostly focused on synthetic datasets where exact ground-truth poses are known, and has overlooked pose estimation, which is important for certain downstream applications such as augmented reality (AR) and robotics. We introduce a principled end-to-end reconstruction framework for natural images, where accurate ground-truth poses are not available. Our approach recovers an SDF-parameterized 3D shape, pose, and appearance from a single image of an object, without exploiting multiple views during training. More specifically, we leverage an unconditional 3D-aware generator, to which we apply a hybrid inversion scheme where a model produces a first guess of the solution which is then refined via optimization. Our framework can de-render an image in as few as 10 steps, enabling its use in practical scenarios. We demonstrate state-of-the-art results on a variety of real and synthetic benchmarks.

1067
ESLAM: Efficient Dense SLAM System Based on Hybrid Representation of Signed Distance Fields
2022-11-21
We present ESLAM, an efficient implicit neural representation method for Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM). ESLAM reads RGB-D frames with unknown camera poses in a sequential manner and incrementally reconstructs the scene representation while estimating the current camera position in the scene. We incorporate the latest advances in Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) into a SLAM system, resulting in an efficient and accurate dense visual SLAM method. Our scene representation consists of multi-scale axis-aligned perpendicular feature planes and shallow decoders that, for each point in the continuous space, decode the interpolated features into Truncated Signed Distance Field (TSDF) and RGB values. Our extensive experiments on three standard datasets, Replica, ScanNet, and TUM RGB-D show that ESLAM improves the accuracy of 3D reconstruction and camera localization of state-of-the-art dense visual SLAM methods by more than 50%, while it runs up to 10 times faster and does not require any pre-training.

1068
Efficient Second-Order Plane Adjustment
2022-11-21
Planes are generally used in 3D reconstruction for depth sensors, such as RGB-D cameras and LiDARs. This paper focuses on the problem of estimating the optimal planes and sensor poses to minimize the point-to-plane distance. The resulting least-squares problem is referred to as plane adjustment (PA) in the literature, which is the counterpart of bundle adjustment (BA) in visual reconstruction. Iterative methods are adopted to solve these least-squares problems. Typically, Newton's method is rarely used for a large-scale least-squares problem, due to the high computational complexity of the Hessian matrix. Instead, methods using an approximation of the Hessian matrix, such as the Levenberg-Marquardt (LM) method, are generally adopted. This paper challenges this ingrained idea. We adopt the Newton's method to efficiently solve the PA problem. Specifically, given poses, the optimal planes have close-form solutions. Thus we can eliminate planes from the cost function, which significantly reduces the number of variables. Furthermore, as the optimal planes are functions of poses, this method actually ensures that the optimal planes for the current estimated poses can be obtained at each iteration, which benefits the convergence. The difficulty lies in how to efficiently compute the Hessian matrix and the gradient of the resulting cost. This paper provides an efficient solution. Empirical evaluation shows that our algorithm converges significantly faster than the widely used LM algorithm.

1069
SegNeRF: 3D Part Segmentation with Neural Radiance Fields
2022-11-21
Recent advances in Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) boast impressive performances for generative tasks such as novel view synthesis and 3D reconstruction. Methods based on neural radiance fields are able to represent the 3D world implicitly by relying exclusively on posed images. Yet, they have seldom been explored in the realm of discriminative tasks such as 3D part segmentation. In this work, we attempt to bridge that gap by proposing SegNeRF: a neural field representation that integrates a semantic field along with the usual radiance field. SegNeRF inherits from previous works the ability to perform novel view synthesis and 3D reconstruction, and enables 3D part segmentation from a few images. Our extensive experiments on PartNet show that SegNeRF is capable of simultaneously predicting geometry, appearance, and semantic information from posed images, even for unseen objects. The predicted semantic fields allow SegNeRF to achieve an average mIoU of $\textbf{30.30%}$ for 2D novel view segmentation, and $\textbf{37.46%}$ for 3D part segmentation, boasting competitive performance against point-based methods by using only a few posed images. Additionally, SegNeRF is able to generate an explicit 3D model from a single image of an object taken in the wild, with its corresponding part segmentation.

1070
IC3D: Image-Conditioned 3D Diffusion for Shape Generation
2022-11-20
In the last years, Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models (DDPMs) obtained state-of-the-art results in many generative tasks, outperforming GANs and other classes of generative models. In particular, they reached impressive results in various image generation sub-tasks, among which conditional generation tasks such as text-guided image synthesis. Given the success of DDPMs in 2D generation, they have more recently been applied to 3D shape generation, outperforming previous approaches and reaching state-of-the-art results. However, these existing 3D DDPM works make little or no use of guidance, mainly being unconditional or class-conditional. In this work, we present IC3D, an Image-Conditioned 3D Diffusion model that generates 3D shapes by image guidance. To guide our DDPM, we introduce CISP (Contrastive Image-Shape Pre-training), a model jointly embedding images and shapes by contrastive pre-training, inspired by the literature on text-to-image DDPMs. Our generative diffusion model outperforms the state-of-the-art in 3D generation quality and diversity. Furthermore, despite IC3D generative nature, we show that its generated shapes are preferred by human evaluators to a SoTA single-view 3D reconstruction model in terms of quality and coherence to the query image by running a side-by-side human evaluation. Ablation studies show the importance of CISP for learning structural integrity properties, crucial for realistic generation. Such biases yield a regular embedding space and allow for interpolation and conditioning on out-of-distribution images, while also making IC3D capable of generating coherent but diverse completions of occluded views and enabling its adoption in controlled real-life applications.

1071
Multi-task Learning for Camera Calibration
2022-11-22
For a number of tasks, such as 3D reconstruction, robotic interface, autonomous driving, etc., camera calibration is essential. In this study, we present a unique method for predicting intrinsic (principal point offset and focal length) and extrinsic (baseline, pitch, and translation) properties from a pair of images. We suggested a novel method where camera model equations are represented as a neural network in a multi-task learning framework, in contrast to existing methods, which build a comprehensive solution. By reconstructing the 3D points using a camera model neural network and then using the loss in reconstruction to obtain the camera specifications, this innovative camera projection loss (CPL) method allows us that the desired parameters should be estimated. As far as we are aware, our approach is the first one that uses an approach to multi-task learning that includes mathematical formulas in a framework for learning to estimate camera parameters to predict both the extrinsic and intrinsic parameters jointly. Additionally, we provided a new dataset named as CVGL Camera Calibration Dataset [1] which has been collected using the CARLA Simulator [2]. Actually, we show that our suggested strategy out performs both conventional methods and methods based on deep learning on 6 out of 10 parameters that were assessed using both real and synthetic data. Our code and generated dataset are available at https://github.com/thanif/Camera-Calibration-through-Camera-Projection-Loss.

1072
DP-NeRF: Deblurred Neural Radiance Field with Physical Scene Priors
2022-11-22
Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) has exhibited outstanding three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction quality via the novel view synthesis from multi-view images and paired calibrated camera parameters. However, previous NeRF-based systems have been demonstrated under strictly controlled settings, with little attention paid to less ideal scenarios, including with the presence of noise such as exposure, illumination changes, and blur. In particular, though blur frequently occurs in real situations, NeRF that can handle blurred images has received little attention. The few studies that have investigated NeRF for blurred images have not considered geometric and appearance consistency in 3D space, which is one of the most important factors in 3D reconstruction. This leads to inconsistency and the degradation of the perceptual quality of the constructed scene. Hence, this paper proposes a DP-NeRF, a novel clean NeRF framework for blurred images, which is constrained with two physical priors. These priors are derived from the actual blurring process during image acquisition by the camera. DP-NeRF proposes rigid blurring kernel to impose 3D consistency utilizing the physical priors and adaptive weight proposal to refine the color composition error in consideration of the relationship between depth and blur. We present extensive experimental results for synthetic and real scenes with two types of blur: camera motion blur and defocus blur. The results demonstrate that DP-NeRF successfully improves the perceptual quality of the constructed NeRF ensuring 3D geometric and appearance consistency. We further demonstrate the effectiveness of our model with comprehensive ablation analysis.

1073
Level-S$^2$fM: Structure from Motion on Neural Level Set of Implicit Surfaces
2022-11-22
This paper presents a neural incremental Structure-from-Motion (SfM) approach, Level-S$^2$fM, which estimates the camera poses and scene geometry from a set of uncalibrated images by learning coordinate MLPs for the implicit surfaces and the radiance fields from the established keypoint correspondences. Our novel formulation poses some new challenges due to inevitable two-view and few-view configurations in the incremental SfM pipeline, which complicates the optimization of coordinate MLPs for volumetric neural rendering with unknown camera poses. Nevertheless, we demonstrate that the strong inductive basis conveying in the 2D correspondences is promising to tackle those challenges by exploiting the relationship between the ray sampling schemes. Based on this, we revisit the pipeline of incremental SfM and renew the key components, including two-view geometry initialization, the camera poses registration, the 3D points triangulation, and Bundle Adjustment, with a fresh perspective based on neural implicit surfaces. By unifying the scene geometry in small MLP networks through coordinate MLPs, our Level-S$^2$fM treats the zero-level set of the implicit surface as an informative top-down regularization to manage the reconstructed 3D points, reject the outliers in correspondences via querying SDF, and refine the estimated geometries by NBA (Neural BA). Not only does our Level-S$^2$fM lead to promising results on camera pose estimation and scene geometry reconstruction, but it also shows a promising way for neural implicit rendering without knowing camera extrinsic beforehand.

1074
Towards Live 3D Reconstruction from Wearable Video: An Evaluation of V-SLAM, NeRF, and Videogrammetry Techniques
2022-11-21
Mixed reality (MR) is a key technology which promises to change the future of warfare. An MR hybrid of physical outdoor environments and virtual military training will enable engagements with long distance enemies, both real and simulated. To enable this technology, a large-scale 3D model of a physical environment must be maintained based on live sensor observations. 3D reconstruction algorithms should utilize the low cost and pervasiveness of video camera sensors, from both overhead and soldier-level perspectives. Mapping speed and 3D quality can be balanced to enable live MR training in dynamic environments. Given these requirements, we survey several 3D reconstruction algorithms for large-scale mapping for military applications given only live video. We measure 3D reconstruction performance from common structure from motion, visual-SLAM, and photogrammetry techniques. This includes the open source algorithms COLMAP, ORB-SLAM3, and NeRF using Instant-NGP. We utilize the autonomous driving academic benchmark KITTI, which includes both dashboard camera video and lidar produced 3D ground truth. With the KITTI data, our primary contribution is a quantitative evaluation of 3D reconstruction computational speed when considering live video.

1075
ActiveRMAP: Radiance Field for Active Mapping And Planning
2022-11-23
A high-quality 3D reconstruction of a scene from a collection of 2D images can be achieved through offline/online mapping methods. In this paper, we explore active mapping from the perspective of implicit representations, which have recently produced compelling results in a variety of applications. One of the most popular implicit representations - Neural Radiance Field (NeRF), first demonstrated photorealistic rendering results using multi-layer perceptrons, with promising offline 3D reconstruction as a by-product of the radiance field. More recently, researchers also applied this implicit representation for online reconstruction and localization (i.e. implicit SLAM systems). However, the study on using implicit representation for active vision tasks is still very limited. In this paper, we are particularly interested in applying the neural radiance field for active mapping and planning problems, which are closely coupled tasks in an active system. We, for the first time, present an RGB-only active vision framework using radiance field representation for active 3D reconstruction and planning in an online manner. Specifically, we formulate this joint task as an iterative dual-stage optimization problem, where we alternatively optimize for the radiance field representation and path planning. Experimental results suggest that the proposed method achieves competitive results compared to other offline methods and outperforms active reconstruction methods using NeRFs.

1076
Efficient 3D Reconstruction, Streaming and Visualization of Static and Dynamic Scene Parts for Multi-client Live-telepresence in Large-scale Environments
2022-11-25
Despite the impressive progress of telepresence systems for room-scale scenes with static and dynamic scene entities, expanding their capabilities to scenarios with larger dynamic environments beyond a fixed size of a few square-meters remains challenging. In this paper, we aim at sharing 3D live-telepresence experiences in large-scale environments beyond room scale with both static and dynamic scene entities at practical bandwidth requirements only based on light-weight scene capture with a single moving consumer-grade RGB-D camera. To this end, we present a system which is built upon a novel hybrid volumetric scene representation in terms of the combination of a voxel-based scene representation for the static contents, that not only stores the reconstructed surface geometry but also contains information about the object semantics as well as their accumulated dynamic movement over time, and a point-cloud-based representation for dynamic scene parts, where the respective separation from static parts is achieved based on semantic and instance information extracted for the input frames. With an independent yet simultaneous streaming of both static and dynamic content, where we seamlessly integrate potentially moving but currently static scene entities in the static model until they are becoming dynamic again, as well as the fusion of static and dynamic data at the remote client, our system is able to achieve VR-based live-telepresence at close to real-time rates. Our evaluation demonstrates the potential of our novel approach in terms of visual quality, performance, and ablation studies regarding involved design choices.

1077
3D Reconstruction of Protein Complex Structures Using Synthesized Multi-View AFM Images
2022-11-26
Recent developments in deep learning-based methods demonstrated its potential to predict the 3D protein structures using inputs such as protein sequences, Cryo-Electron microscopy (Cryo-EM) images of proteins, etc. However, these methods struggle to predict the protein complexes (PC), structures with more than one protein. In this work, we explore the atomic force microscope (AFM) assisted deep learning-based methods to predict the 3D structure of PCs. The images produced by AFM capture the protein structure in different and random orientations. These multi-view images can help train the neural network to predict the 3D structure of protein complexes. However, obtaining the dataset of actual AFM images is time-consuming and not a pragmatic task. We propose a virtual AFM imaging pipeline that takes a 'PDB' protein file and generates multi-view 2D virtual AFM images using volume rendering techniques. With this, we created a dataset of around 8K proteins. We train a neural network for 3D reconstruction called Pix2Vox++ using the synthesized multi-view 2D AFM images dataset. We compare the predicted structure obtained using a different number of views and get the intersection over union (IoU) value of 0.92 on the training dataset and 0.52 on the validation dataset. We believe this approach will lead to better prediction of the structure of protein complexes.

1078
Perceive, Ground, Reason, and Act: A Benchmark for General-purpose Visual Representation
2022-11-28
Current computer vision models, unlike the human visual system, cannot yet achieve general-purpose visual understanding. Existing efforts to create a general vision model are limited in the scope of assessed tasks and offer no overarching framework to perform them holistically. We present a new comprehensive benchmark, General-purpose Visual Understanding Evaluation (G-VUE), covering the full spectrum of visual cognitive abilities with four functional domains $\unicode{x2014}$ Perceive, Ground, Reason, and Act. The four domains are embodied in 11 carefully curated tasks, from 3D reconstruction to visual reasoning and manipulation. Along with the benchmark, we provide a general encoder-decoder framework to allow for the evaluation of arbitrary visual representation on all 11 tasks. We evaluate various pre-trained visual representations with our framework and observe that (1) Transformer-based visual backbone generally outperforms CNN-based backbone on G-VUE, (2) visual representations from vision-language pre-training are superior to those with vision-only pre-training across visual tasks. With G-VUE, we provide a holistic evaluation standard to motivate research toward building general-purpose visual systems via obtaining more general-purpose visual representations.

1079
Fast-SNARF: A Fast Deformer for Articulated Neural Fields
2022-11-28
Neural fields have revolutionized the area of 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis of rigid scenes. A key challenge in making such methods applicable to articulated objects, such as the human body, is to model the deformation of 3D locations between the rest pose (a canonical space) and the deformed space. We propose a new articulation module for neural fields, Fast-SNARF, which finds accurate correspondences between canonical space and posed space via iterative root finding. Fast-SNARF is a drop-in replacement in functionality to our previous work, SNARF, while significantly improving its computational efficiency. We contribute several algorithmic and implementation improvements over SNARF, yielding a speed-up of $150\times$. These improvements include voxel-based correspondence search, pre-computing the linear blend skinning function, and an efficient software implementation with CUDA kernels. Fast-SNARF enables efficient and simultaneous optimization of shape and skinning weights given deformed observations without correspondences (e.g. 3D meshes). Because learning of deformation maps is a crucial component in many 3D human avatar methods and since Fast-SNARF provides a computationally efficient solution, we believe that this work represents a significant step towards the practical creation of 3D virtual humans.

1080
3D Scene Creation and Rendering via Rough Meshes: A Lighting Transfer Avenue
2022-11-27
This paper studies how to flexibly integrate reconstructed 3D models into practical 3D modeling pipelines such as 3D scene creation and rendering. Due to the technical difficulty, one can only obtain rough 3D models (R3DMs) for most real objects using existing 3D reconstruction techniques. As a result, physically-based rendering (PBR) would render low-quality images or videos for scenes that are constructed by R3DMs. One promising solution would be representing real-world objects as Neural Fields such as NeRFs, which are able to generate photo-realistic renderings of an object under desired viewpoints. However, a drawback is that the synthesized views through Neural Fields Rendering (NFR) cannot reflect the simulated lighting details on R3DMs in PBR pipelines, especially when object interactions in the 3D scene creation cause local shadows. To solve this dilemma, we propose a lighting transfer network (LighTNet) to bridge NFR and PBR, such that they can benefit from each other. LighTNet reasons about a simplified image composition model, remedies the uneven surface issue caused by R3DMs, and is empowered by several perceptual-motivated constraints and a new Lab angle loss which enhances the contrast between lighting strength and colors. Comparisons demonstrate that LighTNet is superior in synthesizing impressive lighting, and is promising in pushing NFR further in practical 3D modeling workflows. Project page: https://3d-front-future.github.io/LighTNet .

1081
Adjustable Method Based on Body Parts for Improving the Accuracy of 3D Reconstruction in Visually Important Body Parts from Silhouettes
2022-11-27
This research proposes a novel adjustable algorithm for reconstructing 3D body shapes from front and side silhouettes. Most recent silhouette-based approaches use a deep neural network trained by silhouettes and key points to estimate the shape parameters but cannot accurately fit the model to the body contours and consequently are struggling to cover detailed body geometry, especially in the torso. In addition, in most of these cases, body parts have the same accuracy priority, making the optimization harder and avoiding reaching the optimum possible result in essential body parts, like the torso, which is visually important in most applications, such as virtual garment fitting. In the proposed method, we can adjust the expected accuracy for each body part based on our purpose by assigning coefficients for the distance of each body part between the projected 3D body and 2D silhouettes. To measure this distance, we first recognize the correspondent body parts using body segmentation in both views. Then, we align individual body parts by 2D rigid registration and match them using pairwise matching. The objective function tries to minimize the distance cost for the individual body parts in both views based on distances and coefficients by optimizing the statistical model parameters. We also handle the slight variation in the degree of arms and limbs by matching the pose. We evaluate the proposed method with synthetic body meshes from the normalized S-SCAPE. The result shows that the algorithm can more accurately reconstruct visually important body parts with high coefficients.

1082
Self-Supervised Surgical Instrument 3D Reconstruction from a Single Camera Image
2022-11-26
Surgical instrument tracking is an active research area that can provide surgeons feedback about the location of their tools relative to anatomy. Recent tracking methods are mainly divided into two parts: segmentation and object detection. However, both can only predict 2D information, which is limiting for application to real-world surgery. An accurate 3D surgical instrument model is a prerequisite for precise predictions of the pose and depth of the instrument. Recent single-view 3D reconstruction methods are only used in natural object reconstruction and do not achieve satisfying reconstruction accuracy without 3D attribute-level supervision. Further, those methods are not suitable for the surgical instruments because of their elongated shapes. In this paper, we firstly propose an end-to-end surgical instrument reconstruction system -- Self-supervised Surgical Instrument Reconstruction (SSIR). With SSIR, we propose a multi-cycle-consistency strategy to help capture the texture information from a slim instrument while only requiring a binary instrument label map. Experiments demonstrate that our approach improves the reconstruction quality of surgical instruments compared to other self-supervised methods and achieves promising results.

1083
One is All: Bridging the Gap Between Neural Radiance Fields Architectures with Progressive Volume Distillation
2022-11-29
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) methods have proved effective as compact, high-quality and versatile representations for 3D scenes, and enable downstream tasks such as editing, retrieval, navigation, etc. Various neural architectures are vying for the core structure of NeRF, including the plain Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP), sparse tensors, low-rank tensors, hashtables and their compositions. Each of these representations has its particular set of trade-offs. For example, the hashtable-based representations admit faster training and rendering but their lack of clear geometric meaning hampers downstream tasks like spatial-relation-aware editing. In this paper, we propose Progressive Volume Distillation (PVD), a systematic distillation method that allows any-to-any conversions between different architectures, including MLP, sparse or low-rank tensors, hashtables and their compositions. PVD consequently empowers downstream applications to optimally adapt the neural representations for the task at hand in a post hoc fashion. The conversions are fast, as distillation is progressively performed on different levels of volume representations, from shallower to deeper. We also employ special treatment of density to deal with its specific numerical instability problem. Empirical evidence is presented to validate our method on the NeRF-Synthetic, LLFF and TanksAndTemples datasets. For example, with PVD, an MLP-based NeRF model can be distilled from a hashtable-based Instant-NGP model at a 10X~20X faster speed than being trained the original NeRF from scratch, while achieving a superior level of synthesis quality. Code is available at https://github.com/megvii-research/AAAI2023-PVD.

1084
DATID-3D: Diversity-Preserved Domain Adaptation Using Text-to-Image Diffusion for 3D Generative Model
2022-11-29
Recent 3D generative models have achieved remarkable performance in synthesizing high resolution photorealistic images with view consistency and detailed 3D shapes, but training them for diverse domains is challenging since it requires massive training images and their camera distribution information. Text-guided domain adaptation methods have shown impressive performance on converting the 2D generative model on one domain into the models on other domains with different styles by leveraging the CLIP (Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training), rather than collecting massive datasets for those domains. However, one drawback of them is that the sample diversity in the original generative model is not well-preserved in the domain-adapted generative models due to the deterministic nature of the CLIP text encoder. Text-guided domain adaptation will be even more challenging for 3D generative models not only because of catastrophic diversity loss, but also because of inferior text-image correspondence and poor image quality. Here we propose DATID-3D, a domain adaptation method tailored for 3D generative models using text-to-image diffusion models that can synthesize diverse images per text prompt without collecting additional images and camera information for the target domain. Unlike 3D extensions of prior text-guided domain adaptation methods, our novel pipeline was able to fine-tune the state-of-the-art 3D generator of the source domain to synthesize high resolution, multi-view consistent images in text-guided targeted domains without additional data, outperforming the existing text-guided domain adaptation methods in diversity and text-image correspondence. Furthermore, we propose and demonstrate diverse 3D image manipulations such as one-shot instance-selected adaptation and single-view manipulated 3D reconstruction to fully enjoy diversity in text.

1085
NeuralLift-360: Lifting An In-the-wild 2D Photo to A 3D Object with 360 Views
2022-11-29
Virtual reality and augmented reality (XR) bring increasing demand for 3D content. However, creating high-quality 3D content requires tedious work that a human expert must do. In this work, we study the challenging task of lifting a single image to a 3D object and, for the first time, demonstrate the ability to generate a plausible 3D object with 360{\deg} views that correspond well with the given reference image. By conditioning on the reference image, our model can fulfill the everlasting curiosity for synthesizing novel views of objects from images. Our technique sheds light on a promising direction of easing the workflows for 3D artists and XR designers. We propose a novel framework, dubbed NeuralLift-360, that utilizes a depth-aware neural radiance representation (NeRF) and learns to craft the scene guided by denoising diffusion models. By introducing a ranking loss, our NeuralLift-360 can be guided with rough depth estimation in the wild. We also adopt a CLIP-guided sampling strategy for the diffusion prior to provide coherent guidance. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our NeuralLift-360 significantly outperforms existing state-of-the-art baselines. Project page: https://vita-group.github.io/NeuralLift-360/

1086
PatchMatch-Stereo-Panorama, a fast dense reconstruction from 360 video images
2022-11-29
This work proposes a new method for real-time dense 3d reconstruction for common 360{\deg} action cams, which can be mounted on small scouting UAVs during USAR missions. The proposed method extends a feature based Visual monocular SLAM (OpenVSLAM, based on the popular ORB-SLAM) for robust long-term localization on equirectangular video input by adding an additional densification thread that computes dense correspondences for any given keyframe with respect to a local keyframe-neighboorhood using a PatchMatch-Stereo-approach. While PatchMatch-Stereo-types of algorithms are considered state of the art for large scale Mutli-View-Stereo they had not been adapted so far for real-time dense 3d reconstruction tasks. This work describes a new massively parallel variant of the PatchMatch-Stereo-algorithm that differs from current approaches in two ways: First it supports the equirectangular camera model while other solutions are limited to the pinhole camera model. Second it is optimized for low latency while keeping a high level of completeness and accuracy. To achieve this it operates only on small sequences of keyframes, but employs techniques to compensate for the potential loss of accuracy due to the limited number of frames. Results demonstrate that dense 3d reconstruction is possible on a consumer grade laptop with a recent mobile GPU and that it is possible with improved accuracy and completeness over common offline-MVS solutions with comparable quality settings.

1087
NOPE-SAC: Neural One-Plane RANSAC for Sparse-View Planar 3D Reconstruction
2022-11-30
This paper studies the challenging two-view 3D reconstruction in a rigorous sparse-view configuration, which is suffering from insufficient correspondences in the input image pairs for camera pose estimation. We present a novel Neural One-PlanE RANSAC framework (termed NOPE-SAC in short) that exerts excellent capability to learn one-plane pose hypotheses from 3D plane correspondences. Building on the top of a siamese plane detection network, our NOPE-SAC first generates putative plane correspondences with a coarse initial pose. It then feeds the learned 3D plane parameters of correspondences into shared MLPs to estimate the one-plane camera pose hypotheses, which are subsequently reweighed in a RANSAC manner to obtain the final camera pose. Because the neural one-plane pose minimizes the number of plane correspondences for adaptive pose hypotheses generation, it enables stable pose voting and reliable pose refinement in a few plane correspondences for the sparse-view inputs. In the experiments, we demonstrate that our NOPE-SAC significantly improves the camera pose estimation for the two-view inputs with severe viewpoint changes, setting several new state-of-the-art performances on two challenging benchmarks, i.e., MatterPort3D and ScanNet, for sparse-view 3D reconstruction. The source code is released at https://github.com/IceTTTb/NopeSAC for reproducible research.

1088
SparsePose: Sparse-View Camera Pose Regression and Refinement
2022-11-29
Camera pose estimation is a key step in standard 3D reconstruction pipelines that operate on a dense set of images of a single object or scene. However, methods for pose estimation often fail when only a few images are available because they rely on the ability to robustly identify and match visual features between image pairs. While these methods can work robustly with dense camera views, capturing a large set of images can be time-consuming or impractical. We propose SparsePose for recovering accurate camera poses given a sparse set of wide-baseline images (fewer than 10). The method learns to regress initial camera poses and then iteratively refine them after training on a large-scale dataset of objects (Co3D: Common Objects in 3D). SparsePose significantly outperforms conventional and learning-based baselines in recovering accurate camera rotations and translations. We also demonstrate our pipeline for high-fidelity 3D reconstruction using only 5-9 images of an object.

1089
SparseFusion: Distilling View-conditioned Diffusion for 3D Reconstruction
2022-12-01
We propose SparseFusion, a sparse view 3D reconstruction approach that unifies recent advances in neural rendering and probabilistic image generation. Existing approaches typically build on neural rendering with re-projected features but fail to generate unseen regions or handle uncertainty under large viewpoint changes. Alternate methods treat this as a (probabilistic) 2D synthesis task, and while they can generate plausible 2D images, they do not infer a consistent underlying 3D. However, we find that this trade-off between 3D consistency and probabilistic image generation does not need to exist. In fact, we show that geometric consistency and generative inference can be complementary in a mode-seeking behavior. By distilling a 3D consistent scene representation from a view-conditioned latent diffusion model, we are able to recover a plausible 3D representation whose renderings are both accurate and realistic. We evaluate our approach across 51 categories in the CO3D dataset and show that it outperforms existing methods, in both distortion and perception metrics, for sparse-view novel view synthesis.

1090
Multi-view Tracking, Re-ID, and Social Network Analysis of a Flock of Visually Similar Birds in an Outdoor Aviary
2022-12-01
The ability to capture detailed interactions among individuals in a social group is foundational to our study of animal behavior and neuroscience. Recent advances in deep learning and computer vision are driving rapid progress in methods that can record the actions and interactions of multiple individuals simultaneously. Many social species, such as birds, however, live deeply embedded in a three-dimensional world. This world introduces additional perceptual challenges such as occlusions, orientation-dependent appearance, large variation in apparent size, and poor sensor coverage for 3D reconstruction, that are not encountered by applications studying animals that move and interact only on 2D planes. Here we introduce a system for studying the behavioral dynamics of a group of songbirds as they move throughout a 3D aviary. We study the complexities that arise when tracking a group of closely interacting animals in three dimensions and introduce a novel dataset for evaluating multi-view trackers. Finally, we analyze captured ethogram data and demonstrate that social context affects the distribution of sequential interactions between birds in the aviary.

1091
Fast Non-Rigid Radiance Fields from Monocularized Data
2022-12-02
3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis of dynamic scenes from collections of single views recently gained increased attention. Existing work shows impressive results for synthetic setups and forward-facing real-world data, but is severely limited in the training speed and angular range for generating novel views. This paper addresses these limitations and proposes a new method for full 360{\deg} novel view synthesis of non-rigidly deforming scenes. At the core of our method are: 1) An efficient deformation module that decouples the processing of spatial and temporal information for acceleration at training and inference time; and 2) A static module representing the canonical scene as a fast hash-encoded neural radiance field. We evaluate the proposed approach on the established synthetic D-NeRF benchmark, that enables efficient reconstruction from a single monocular view per time-frame randomly sampled from a full hemisphere. We refer to this form of inputs as monocularized data. To prove its practicality for real-world scenarios, we recorded twelve challenging sequences with human actors by sampling single frames from a synchronized multi-view rig. In both cases, our method is trained significantly faster than previous methods (minutes instead of days) while achieving higher visual accuracy for generated novel views. Our source code and data is available at our project page https://graphics.tu-bs.de/publications/kappel2022fast.

1092
SceneRF: Self-Supervised Monocular 3D Scene Reconstruction with Radiance Fields
2022-12-05
3D reconstruction from 2D image was extensively studied, training with depth supervision. To relax the dependence to costly-acquired datasets, we propose SceneRF, a self-supervised monocular scene reconstruction method using only posed image sequences for training. Fueled by the recent progress in neural radiance fields (NeRF) we optimize a radiance field though with explicit depth optimization and a novel probabilistic sampling strategy to efficiently handle large scenes. At inference, a single input image suffices to hallucinate novel depth views which are fused together to obtain 3D scene reconstruction. Thorough experiments demonstrate that we outperform all recent baselines for novel depth views synthesis and scene reconstruction, on indoor BundleFusion and outdoor SemanticKITTI. Our code is available at https://astra-vision.github.io/SceneRF.

1093
Real Time Incremental Image Mosaicking Without Use of Any Camera Parameter
2022-12-05
Over the past decade, there has been a significant increase in the use of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) to support a wide variety of missions, such as remote surveillance, vehicle tracking, and object detection. For problems involving processing of areas larger than a single image, the mosaicking of UAV imagery is a necessary step. Real-time image mosaicking is used for missions that requires fast response like search and rescue missions. It typically requires information from additional sensors, such as Global Position System (GPS) and Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU), to facilitate direct orientation, or 3D reconstruction approaches to recover the camera poses. This paper proposes a UAV-based system for real-time creation of incremental mosaics which does not require either direct or indirect camera parameters such as orientation information. Inspired by previous approaches, in the mosaicking process, feature extraction from images, matching of similar key points between images, finding homography matrix to warp and align images, and blending images to obtain mosaics better looking, plays important roles in the achievement of the high quality result. Edge detection is used in the blending step as a novel approach. Experimental results show that real-time incremental image mosaicking process can be completed satisfactorily and without need for any additional camera parameters.

1094
Fast and Lightweight Scene Regressor for Camera Relocalization
2022-12-04
Camera relocalization involving a prior 3D reconstruction plays a crucial role in many mixed reality and robotics applications. Estimating the camera pose directly with respect to pre-built 3D models can be prohibitively expensive for several applications with limited storage and/or communication bandwidth. Although recent scene and absolute pose regression methods have become popular for efficient camera localization, most of them are computation-resource intensive and difficult to obtain a real-time inference with high accuracy constraints. This study proposes a simple scene regression method that requires only a multi-layer perceptron network for mapping scene coordinates to achieve accurate camera pose estimations. The proposed approach uses sparse descriptors to regress the scene coordinates, instead of a dense RGB image. The use of sparse features provides several advantages. First, the proposed regressor network is substantially smaller than those reported in previous studies. This makes our system highly efficient and scalable. Second, the pre-built 3D models provide the most reliable and robust 2D-3D matches. Therefore, learning from them can lead to an awareness of equivalent features and substantially improve the generalization performance. A detailed analysis of our approach and extensive evaluations using existing datasets are provided to support the proposed method. The implementation detail is available at https://github.com/aislab/feat2map

1095
MaRF: Representing Mars as Neural Radiance Fields
2022-12-03
The aim of this work is to introduce MaRF, a novel framework able to synthesize the Martian environment using several collections of images from rover cameras. The idea is to generate a 3D scene of Mars' surface to address key challenges in planetary surface exploration such as: planetary geology, simulated navigation and shape analysis. Although there exist different methods to enable a 3D reconstruction of Mars' surface, they rely on classical computer graphics techniques that incur high amounts of computational resources during the reconstruction process, and have limitations with generalizing reconstructions to unseen scenes and adapting to new images coming from rover cameras. The proposed framework solves the aforementioned limitations by exploiting Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs), a method that synthesize complex scenes by optimizing a continuous volumetric scene function using a sparse set of images. To speed up the learning process, we replaced the sparse set of rover images with their neural graphics primitives (NGPs), a set of vectors of fixed length that are learned to preserve the information of the original images in a significantly smaller size. In the experimental section, we demonstrate the environments created from actual Mars datasets captured by Curiosity rover, Perseverance rover and Ingenuity helicopter, all of which are available on the Planetary Data System (PDS).

1096
NeRDi: Single-View NeRF Synthesis with Language-Guided Diffusion as General Image Priors
2022-12-06
2D-to-3D reconstruction is an ill-posed problem, yet humans are good at solving this problem due to their prior knowledge of the 3D world developed over years. Driven by this observation, we propose NeRDi, a single-view NeRF synthesis framework with general image priors from 2D diffusion models. Formulating single-view reconstruction as an image-conditioned 3D generation problem, we optimize the NeRF representations by minimizing a diffusion loss on its arbitrary view renderings with a pretrained image diffusion model under the input-view constraint. We leverage off-the-shelf vision-language models and introduce a two-section language guidance as conditioning inputs to the diffusion model. This is essentially helpful for improving multiview content coherence as it narrows down the general image prior conditioned on the semantic and visual features of the single-view input image. Additionally, we introduce a geometric loss based on estimated depth maps to regularize the underlying 3D geometry of the NeRF. Experimental results on the DTU MVS dataset show that our method can synthesize novel views with higher quality even compared to existing methods trained on this dataset. We also demonstrate our generalizability in zero-shot NeRF synthesis for in-the-wild images.

1097
SDFusion: Multimodal 3D Shape Completion, Reconstruction, and Generation
2022-12-08
In this work, we present a novel framework built to simplify 3D asset generation for amateur users. To enable interactive generation, our method supports a variety of input modalities that can be easily provided by a human, including images, text, partially observed shapes and combinations of these, further allowing to adjust the strength of each input. At the core of our approach is an encoder-decoder, compressing 3D shapes into a compact latent representation, upon which a diffusion model is learned. To enable a variety of multi-modal inputs, we employ task-specific encoders with dropout followed by a cross-attention mechanism. Due to its flexibility, our model naturally supports a variety of tasks, outperforming prior works on shape completion, image-based 3D reconstruction, and text-to-3D. Most interestingly, our model can combine all these tasks into one swiss-army-knife tool, enabling the user to perform shape generation using incomplete shapes, images, and textual descriptions at the same time, providing the relative weights for each input and facilitating interactivity. Despite our approach being shape-only, we further show an efficient method to texture the generated shape using large-scale text-to-image models.

1098
Multi-View Mesh Reconstruction with Neural Deferred Shading
2022-12-08
We propose an analysis-by-synthesis method for fast multi-view 3D reconstruction of opaque objects with arbitrary materials and illumination. State-of-the-art methods use both neural surface representations and neural rendering. While flexible, neural surface representations are a significant bottleneck in optimization runtime. Instead, we represent surfaces as triangle meshes and build a differentiable rendering pipeline around triangle rasterization and neural shading. The renderer is used in a gradient descent optimization where both a triangle mesh and a neural shader are jointly optimized to reproduce the multi-view images. We evaluate our method on a public 3D reconstruction dataset and show that it can match the reconstruction accuracy of traditional baselines and neural approaches while surpassing them in optimization runtime. Additionally, we investigate the shader and find that it learns an interpretable representation of appearance, enabling applications such as 3D material editing.

1099
ALTO: Alternating Latent Topologies for Implicit 3D Reconstruction
2022-12-08
This work introduces alternating latent topologies (ALTO) for high-fidelity reconstruction of implicit 3D surfaces from noisy point clouds. Previous work identifies that the spatial arrangement of latent encodings is important to recover detail. One school of thought is to encode a latent vector for each point (point latents). Another school of thought is to project point latents into a grid (grid latents) which could be a voxel grid or triplane grid. Each school of thought has tradeoffs. Grid latents are coarse and lose high-frequency detail. In contrast, point latents preserve detail. However, point latents are more difficult to decode into a surface, and quality and runtime suffer. In this paper, we propose ALTO to sequentially alternate between geometric representations, before converging to an easy-to-decode latent. We find that this preserves spatial expressiveness and makes decoding lightweight. We validate ALTO on implicit 3D recovery and observe not only a performance improvement over the state-of-the-art, but a runtime improvement of 3-10$\times$. Project website at https://visual.ee.ucla.edu/alto.htm/.

1100
Structured 3D Features for Reconstructing Controllable Avatars
2022-12-13
We introduce Structured 3D Features, a model based on a novel implicit 3D representation that pools pixel-aligned image features onto dense 3D points sampled from a parametric, statistical human mesh surface. The 3D points have associated semantics and can move freely in 3D space. This allows for optimal coverage of the person of interest, beyond just the body shape, which in turn, additionally helps modeling accessories, hair, and loose clothing. Owing to this, we present a complete 3D transformer-based attention framework which, given a single image of a person in an unconstrained pose, generates an animatable 3D reconstruction with albedo and illumination decomposition, as a result of a single end-to-end model, trained semi-supervised, and with no additional postprocessing. We show that our S3F model surpasses the previous state-of-the-art on various tasks, including monocular 3D reconstruction, as well as albedo and shading estimation. Moreover, we show that the proposed methodology allows novel view synthesis, relighting, and re-posing the reconstruction, and can naturally be extended to handle multiple input images (e.g. different views of a person, or the same view, in different poses, in video). Finally, we demonstrate the editing capabilities of our model for 3D virtual try-on applications.

1101
SST: Real-time End-to-end Monocular 3D Reconstruction via Sparse Spatial-Temporal Guidance
2022-12-13
Real-time monocular 3D reconstruction is a challenging problem that remains unsolved. Although recent end-to-end methods have demonstrated promising results, tiny structures and geometric boundaries are hardly captured due to their insufficient supervision neglecting spatial details and oversimplified feature fusion ignoring temporal cues. To address the problems, we propose an end-to-end 3D reconstruction network SST, which utilizes Sparse estimated points from visual SLAM system as additional Spatial guidance and fuses Temporal features via a novel cross-modal attention mechanism, achieving more detailed reconstruction results. We propose a Local Spatial-Temporal Fusion module to exploit more informative spatial-temporal cues from multi-view color information and sparse priors, as well a Global Spatial-Temporal Fusion module to refine the local TSDF volumes with the world-frame model from coarse to fine. Extensive experiments on ScanNet and 7-Scenes demonstrate that SST outperforms all state-of-the-art competitors, whilst keeping a high inference speed at 59 FPS, enabling real-world applications with real-time requirements.

1102
Shared Coupling-bridge for Weakly Supervised Local Feature Learning
2022-12-14
Sparse local feature extraction is usually believed to be of important significance in typical vision tasks such as simultaneous localization and mapping, image matching and 3D reconstruction. At present, it still has some deficiencies needing further improvement, mainly including the discrimination power of extracted local descriptors, the localization accuracy of detected keypoints, and the efficiency of local feature learning. This paper focuses on promoting the currently popular sparse local feature learning with camera pose supervision. Therefore, it pertinently proposes a Shared Coupling-bridge scheme with four light-weight yet effective improvements for weakly-supervised local feature (SCFeat) learning. It mainly contains: i) the \emph{Feature-Fusion-ResUNet Backbone} (F2R-Backbone) for local descriptors learning, ii) a shared coupling-bridge normalization to improve the decoupling training of description network and detection network, iii) an improved detection network with peakiness measurement to detect keypoints and iv) the fundamental matrix error as a reward factor to further optimize feature detection training. Extensive experiments prove that our SCFeat improvement is effective. It could often obtain a state-of-the-art performance on classic image matching and visual localization. In terms of 3D reconstruction, it could still achieve competitive results. For sharing and communication, our source codes are available at https://github.com/sunjiayuanro/SCFeat.git.

1103
Localizing Objects in 3D from Egocentric Videos with Visual Queries
2022-12-14
With the recent advances in video and 3D understanding, novel 4D spatio-temporal challenges fusing both concepts have emerged. Towards this direction, the Ego4D Episodic Memory Benchmark proposed a task for Visual Queries with 3D Localization (VQ3D). Given an egocentric video clip and an image crop depicting a query object, the goal is to localize the 3D position of the center of that query object with respect to the camera pose of a query frame. Current methods tackle the problem of VQ3D by lifting the 2D localization results of the sister task Visual Queries with 2D Localization (VQ2D) into a 3D reconstruction. Yet, we point out that the low number of Queries with Poses (QwP) from previous VQ3D methods severally hinders their overall success rate and highlights the need for further effort in 3D modeling to tackle the VQ3D task. In this work, we formalize a pipeline that better entangles 3D multiview geometry with 2D object retrieval from egocentric videos. We estimate more robust camera poses, leading to more successful object queries and substantially improved VQ3D performance. In practice, our method reaches a top-1 overall success rate of 86.36% on the Ego4D Episodic Memory Benchmark VQ3D, a 10x improvement over the previous state-of-the-art. In addition, we provide a complete empirical study highlighting the remaining challenges in VQ3D.

1104
Street-view change detection with deconvolutional networks
2018-05-15
We propose a system for performing structural change detection in street-view videos captured by a vehicle-mounted monocular camera over time. Our approach is motivated by the need for more frequent and efficient updates in the large-scale maps used in autonomous vehicle navigation. Our method chains a multi-sensor fusion SLAM and fast dense 3D reconstruction pipeline, which provide coarsely registered image pairs to a deep Deconvolutional Network (DN) for pixel-wise change detection. We investigate two DN architectures for change detection, the first one is based on the idea of stacking contraction and expansion blocks while the second one is based on the idea of Fully Convolutional Networks. To train and evaluate our networks we introduce a new urban change detection dataset which is an order of magnitude larger than existing datasets and contains challenging changes due to seasonal and lighting variations. Our method outperforms existing literature on this dataset, which we make available to the community, and an existing panoramic change detection dataset, demonstrating its wide applicability.

1105
High-resolution canopy height map in the Landes forest (France) based on GEDI, Sentinel-1, and Sentinel-2 data with a deep learning approach
2022-12-20
In intensively managed forests in Europe, where forests are divided into stands of small size and may show heterogeneity within stands, a high spatial resolution (10 - 20 meters) is arguably needed to capture the differences in canopy height. In this work, we developed a deep learning model based on multi-stream remote sensing measurements to create a high-resolution canopy height map over the "Landes de Gascogne" forest in France, a large maritime pine plantation of 13,000 km$^2$ with flat terrain and intensive management. This area is characterized by even-aged and mono-specific stands, of a typical length of a few hundred meters, harvested every 35 to 50 years. Our deep learning U-Net model uses multi-band images from Sentinel-1 and Sentinel-2 with composite time averages as input to predict tree height derived from GEDI waveforms. The evaluation is performed with external validation data from forest inventory plots and a stereo 3D reconstruction model based on Skysat imagery available at specific locations. We trained seven different U-net models based on a combination of Sentinel-1 and Sentinel-2 bands to evaluate the importance of each instrument in the dominant height retrieval. The model outputs allow us to generate a 10 m resolution canopy height map of the whole "Landes de Gascogne" forest area for 2020 with a mean absolute error of 2.02 m on the Test dataset. The best predictions were obtained using all available satellite layers from Sentinel-1 and Sentinel-2 but using only one satellite source also provided good predictions. For all validation datasets in coniferous forests, our model showed better metrics than previous canopy height models available in the same region.

1106
Seafloor-Invariant Caustics Removal from Underwater Imagery
2022-12-20
Mapping the seafloor with underwater imaging cameras is of significant importance for various applications including marine engineering, geology, geomorphology, archaeology and biology. For shallow waters, among the underwater imaging challenges, caustics i.e., the complex physical phenomena resulting from the projection of light rays being refracted by the wavy surface, is likely the most crucial one. Caustics is the main factor during underwater imaging campaigns that massively degrade image quality and affect severely any 2D mosaicking or 3D reconstruction of the seabed. In this work, we propose a novel method for correcting the radiometric effects of caustics on shallow underwater imagery. Contrary to the state-of-the-art, the developed method can handle seabed and riverbed of any anaglyph, correcting the images using real pixel information, thus, improving image matching and 3D reconstruction processes. In particular, the developed method employs deep learning architectures in order to classify image pixels to "non-caustics" and "caustics". Then, exploits the 3D geometry of the scene to achieve a pixel-wise correction, by transferring appropriate color values between the overlapping underwater images. Moreover, to fill the current gap, we have collected, annotated and structured a real-world caustic dataset, namely R-CAUSTIC, which is openly available. Overall, based on the experimental results and validation the developed methodology is quite promising in both detecting caustics and reconstructing their intensity.

1107
Incremental Neural Implicit Representation with Uncertainty-Filtered Knowledge Distillation
2022-12-21
Recent neural implicit representations (NIRs) have achieved great success in the tasks of 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis. However, they suffer from the catastrophic forgetting problem when continuously learning from streaming data without revisiting the previously seen data. This limitation prohibits the application of existing NIRs to scenarios where images come in sequentially. In view of this, we explore the task of incremental learning for NIRs in this work. We design a student-teacher framework to mitigate the catastrophic forgetting problem. Specifically, we iterate the process of using the student as the teacher at the end of each time step and let the teacher guide the training of the student in the next step. As a result, the student network is able to learn new information from the streaming data and retain old knowledge from the teacher network simultaneously. Although intuitive, naively applying the student-teacher pipeline does not work well in our task. Not all information from the teacher network is helpful since it is only trained with the old data. To alleviate this problem, we further introduce a random inquirer and an uncertainty-based filter to filter useful information. Our proposed method is general and thus can be adapted to different implicit representations such as neural radiance field (NeRF) and neural SDF. Extensive experimental results for both 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach compared to different baselines.

1108
PaletteNeRF: Palette-based Appearance Editing of Neural Radiance Fields
2022-12-21
Recent advances in neural radiance fields have enabled the high-fidelity 3D reconstruction of complex scenes for novel view synthesis. However, it remains underexplored how the appearance of such representations can be efficiently edited while maintaining photorealism. In this work, we present PaletteNeRF, a novel method for photorealistic appearance editing of neural radiance fields (NeRF) based on 3D color decomposition. Our method decomposes the appearance of each 3D point into a linear combination of palette-based bases (i.e., 3D segmentations defined by a group of NeRF-type functions) that are shared across the scene. While our palette-based bases are view-independent, we also predict a view-dependent function to capture the color residual (e.g., specular shading). During training, we jointly optimize the basis functions and the color palettes, and we also introduce novel regularizers to encourage the spatial coherence of the decomposition. Our method allows users to efficiently edit the appearance of the 3D scene by modifying the color palettes. We also extend our framework with compressed semantic features for semantic-aware appearance editing. We demonstrate that our technique is superior to baseline methods both quantitatively and qualitatively for appearance editing of complex real-world scenes.

1109
Coded Illumination for 3D Lensless Imaging
2022-12-22
Mask-based lensless cameras offer a novel design for imaging systems by replacing the lens in a conventional camera with a layer of coded mask. Each pixel of the lensless camera encodes the information of the entire 3D scene. Existing methods for 3D reconstruction from lensless measurements suffer from poor spatial and depth resolution. This is partially due to the system ill conditioning that arises because the point-spread functions (PSFs) from different depth planes are very similar. In this paper, we propose to capture multiple measurements of the scene under a sequence of coded illumination patterns to improve the 3D image reconstruction quality. In addition, we put the illumination source at a distance away from the camera. With such baseline distance between the lensless camera and illumination source, the camera observes a slice of the 3D volume, and the PSF of each depth plane becomes more resolvable from each other. We present simulation results along with experimental results with a camera prototype to demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.

1110
3D face reconstruction from single image with generative adversarial networks
2022-12-01
Traditional reconstruction techniques extract information from the objects geometry or one or more 2D images. On the other hand, the limit of the existing methods is that they generate less precise objects. Thus the lack of robustness towards several face reconstruction problems, such as the position of the head, occlusion, noise, and lighting variation. Therefore, generative neural networks and graphical convolution networks have marked a significant evolution in the field of 3D reconstruction. This paper proposes a model for 3D face reconstruction from a single 2D image. Our model is composed of a generator and a discriminator based on convolutional graphic layers. Indeed, in order to generate a face mesh with expression, our idea is to use the landmarks associated with this image as input to the generator to reconstruct a face geometry with expression and improve the convergence rate. As a result, our model offers an accurate reconstruction of facial geometry with expression; thus, our model outperforms state-of-the-art methods through qualitative and quantitative comparison.

1111
Polarimetric Multi-View Inverse Rendering
2022-12-24
A polarization camera has great potential for 3D reconstruction since the angle of polarization (AoP) and the degree of polarization (DoP) of reflected light are related to an object's surface normal. In this paper, we propose a novel 3D reconstruction method called Polarimetric Multi-View Inverse Rendering (Polarimetric MVIR) that effectively exploits geometric, photometric, and polarimetric cues extracted from input multi-view color-polarization images. We first estimate camera poses and an initial 3D model by geometric reconstruction with a standard structure-from-motion and multi-view stereo pipeline. We then refine the initial model by optimizing photometric rendering errors and polarimetric errors using multi-view RGB, AoP, and DoP images, where we propose a novel polarimetric cost function that enables an effective constraint on the estimated surface normal of each vertex, while considering four possible ambiguous azimuth angles revealed from the AoP measurement. The weight for the polarimetric cost is effectively determined based on the DoP measurement, which is regarded as the reliability of polarimetric information. Experimental results using both synthetic and real data demonstrate that our Polarimetric MVIR can reconstruct a detailed 3D shape without assuming a specific surface material and lighting condition.

1112
NeMo: 3D Neural Motion Fields from Multiple Video Instances of the Same Action
2022-12-28
The task of reconstructing 3D human motion has wideranging applications. The gold standard Motion capture (MoCap) systems are accurate but inaccessible to the general public due to their cost, hardware and space constraints. In contrast, monocular human mesh recovery (HMR) methods are much more accessible than MoCap as they take single-view videos as inputs. Replacing the multi-view Mo- Cap systems with a monocular HMR method would break the current barriers to collecting accurate 3D motion thus making exciting applications like motion analysis and motiondriven animation accessible to the general public. However, performance of existing HMR methods degrade when the video contains challenging and dynamic motion that is not in existing MoCap datasets used for training. This reduces its appeal as dynamic motion is frequently the target in 3D motion recovery in the aforementioned applications. Our study aims to bridge the gap between monocular HMR and multi-view MoCap systems by leveraging information shared across multiple video instances of the same action. We introduce the Neural Motion (NeMo) field. It is optimized to represent the underlying 3D motions across a set of videos of the same action. Empirically, we show that NeMo can recover 3D motion in sports using videos from the Penn Action dataset, where NeMo outperforms existing HMR methods in terms of 2D keypoint detection. To further validate NeMo using 3D metrics, we collected a small MoCap dataset mimicking actions in Penn Action,and show that NeMo achieves better 3D reconstruction compared to various baselines.

1113
Equivariant Light Field Convolution and Transformer
2022-12-30
3D reconstruction and novel view rendering can greatly benefit from geometric priors when the input views are not sufficient in terms of coverage and inter-view baselines. Deep learning of geometric priors from 2D images often requires each image to be represented in a $2D$ canonical frame and the prior to be learned in a given or learned $3D$ canonical frame. In this paper, given only the relative poses of the cameras, we show how to learn priors from multiple views equivariant to coordinate frame transformations by proposing an $SE(3)$-equivariant convolution and transformer in the space of rays in 3D. This enables the creation of a light field that remains equivariant to the choice of coordinate frame. The light field as defined in our work, refers both to the radiance field and the feature field defined on the ray space. We model the ray space, the domain of the light field, as a homogeneous space of $SE(3)$ and introduce the $SE(3)$-equivariant convolution in ray space. Depending on the output domain of the convolution, we present convolution-based $SE(3)$-equivariant maps from ray space to ray space and to $\mathbb{R}^3$. Our mathematical framework allows us to go beyond convolution to $SE(3)$-equivariant attention in the ray space. We demonstrate how to tailor and adapt the equivariant convolution and transformer in the tasks of equivariant neural rendering and $3D$ reconstruction from multiple views. We demonstrate $SE(3)$-equivariance by obtaining robust results in roto-translated datasets without performing transformation augmentation.

1114
Ponder: Point Cloud Pre-training via Neural Rendering
2022-12-31
We propose a novel approach to self-supervised learning of point cloud representations by differentiable neural rendering. Motivated by the fact that informative point cloud features should be able to encode rich geometry and appearance cues and render realistic images, we train a point-cloud encoder within a devised point-based neural renderer by comparing the rendered images with real images on massive RGB-D data. The learned point-cloud encoder can be easily integrated into various downstream tasks, including not only high-level tasks like 3D detection and segmentation, but low-level tasks like 3D reconstruction and image synthesis. Extensive experiments on various tasks demonstrate the superiority of our approach compared to existing pre-training methods.

1115
BS3D: Building-scale 3D Reconstruction from RGB-D Images
2023-01-03
Various datasets have been proposed for simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) and related problems. Existing datasets often include small environments, have incomplete ground truth, or lack important sensor data, such as depth and infrared images. We propose an easy-to-use framework for acquiring building-scale 3D reconstruction using a consumer depth camera. Unlike complex and expensive acquisition setups, our system enables crowd-sourcing, which can greatly benefit data-hungry algorithms. Compared to similar systems, we utilize raw depth maps for odometry computation and loop closure refinement which results in better reconstructions. We acquire a building-scale 3D dataset (BS3D) and demonstrate its value by training an improved monocular depth estimation model. As a unique experiment, we benchmark visual-inertial odometry methods using both color and active infrared images.

1116
Towards a Pipeline for Real-Time Visualization of Faces for VR-based Telepresence and Live Broadcasting Utilizing Neural Rendering
2023-01-04
While head-mounted displays (HMDs) for Virtual Reality (VR) have become widely available in the consumer market, they pose a considerable obstacle for a realistic face-to-face conversation in VR since HMDs hide a significant portion of the participants faces. Even with image streams from cameras directly attached to an HMD, stitching together a convincing image of an entire face remains a challenging task because of extreme capture angles and strong lens distortions due to a wide field of view. Compared to the long line of research in VR, reconstruction of faces hidden beneath an HMD is a very recent topic of research. While the current state-of-the-art solutions demonstrate photo-realistic 3D reconstruction results, they require high-cost laboratory equipment and large computational costs. We present an approach that focuses on low-cost hardware and can be used on a commodity gaming computer with a single GPU. We leverage the benefits of an end-to-end pipeline by means of Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN). Our GAN produces a frontal-facing 2.5D point cloud based on a training dataset captured with an RGBD camera. In our approach, the training process is offline, while the reconstruction runs in real-time. Our results show adequate reconstruction quality within the 'learned' expressions. Expressions not learned by the network produce artifacts and can trigger the Uncanny Valley effect.

1117
Automatic Diagnosis of Carotid Atherosclerosis Using a Portable Freehand 3D Ultrasound Imaging System
2023-01-08
Objective: The objective of this study is to develop a deep-learning based detection and diagnosis technique for carotid atherosclerosis using a portable freehand 3D ultrasound (US) imaging system. Methods: A total of 127 3D carotid artery datasets were acquired using a portable 3D US imaging system. A U-Net segmentation network was firstly applied to extract the carotid artery on 2D transverse frame, then a novel 3D reconstruction algorithm using fast dot projection (FDP) method with position regularization was proposed to reconstruct the carotid artery volume. Furthermore, a convolutional neural network was used to classify the healthy case and diseased case qualitatively. 3D volume analysis including longitudinal reprojection algorithm and stenosis grade measurement algorithm was developed to obtain the clinical metrics quantitatively. Results: The proposed system achieved sensitivity of 0.714, specificity of 0.851 and accuracy of 0.803 respectively in diagnosis of carotid atherosclerosis. The automatically measured stenosis grade illustrated good correlation (r=0.762) with the experienced expert measurement. Conclusion: the developed technique based on 3D US imaging can be applied to the automatic diagnosis of carotid atherosclerosis. Significance: The proposed deep-learning based technique was specially designed for a portable 3D freehand US system, which can provide carotid atherosclerosis examination more conveniently and decrease the dependence on clinician's experience.

1118
Elevation Estimation-Driven Building 3D Reconstruction from Single-View Remote Sensing Imagery
2023-01-11
Building 3D reconstruction from remote sensing images has a wide range of applications in smart cities, photogrammetry and other fields. Methods for automatic 3D urban building modeling typically employ multi-view images as input to algorithms to recover point clouds and 3D models of buildings. However, such models rely heavily on multi-view images of buildings, which are time-intensive and limit the applicability and practicality of the models. To solve these issues, we focus on designing an efficient DSM estimation-driven reconstruction framework (Building3D), which aims to reconstruct 3D building models from the input single-view remote sensing image. First, we propose a Semantic Flow Field-guided DSM Estimation (SFFDE) network, which utilizes the proposed concept of elevation semantic flow to achieve the registration of local and global features. Specifically, in order to make the network semantics globally aware, we propose an Elevation Semantic Globalization (ESG) module to realize the semantic globalization of instances. Further, in order to alleviate the semantic span of global features and original local features, we propose a Local-to-Global Elevation Semantic Registration (L2G-ESR) module based on elevation semantic flow. Our Building3D is rooted in the SFFDE network for building elevation prediction, synchronized with a building extraction network for building masks, and then sequentially performs point cloud reconstruction, surface reconstruction (or CityGML model reconstruction). On this basis, our Building3D can optionally generate CityGML models or surface mesh models of the buildings. Extensive experiments on ISPRS Vaihingen and DFC2019 datasets on the DSM estimation task show that our SFFDE significantly improves upon state-of-the-arts. Furthermore, our Building3D achieves impressive results in the 3D point cloud and 3D model reconstruction process.

1119
Edge Preserving Implicit Surface Representation of Point Clouds
2023-01-12
Learning implicit surface directly from raw data recently has become a very attractive representation method for 3D reconstruction tasks due to its excellent performance. However, as the raw data quality deteriorates, the implicit functions often lead to unsatisfactory reconstruction results. To this end, we propose a novel edge-preserving implicit surface reconstruction method, which mainly consists of a differentiable Laplican regularizer and a dynamic edge sampling strategy. Among them, the differential Laplican regularizer can effectively alleviate the implicit surface unsmoothness caused by the point cloud quality deteriorates; Meanwhile, in order to reduce the excessive smoothing at the edge regions of implicit suface, we proposed a dynamic edge extract strategy for sampling near the sharp edge of point cloud, which can effectively avoid the Laplacian regularizer from smoothing all regions. Finally, we combine them with a simple regularization term for robust implicit surface reconstruction. Compared with the state-of-the-art methods, experimental results show that our method significantly improves the quality of 3D reconstruction results. Moreover, we demonstrate through several experiments that our method can be conveniently and effectively applied to some point cloud analysis tasks, including point cloud edge feature extraction, normal estimation,etc.

1120
Multiview Compressive Coding for 3D Reconstruction
2023-01-19
A central goal of visual recognition is to understand objects and scenes from a single image. 2D recognition has witnessed tremendous progress thanks to large-scale learning and general-purpose representations. Comparatively, 3D poses new challenges stemming from occlusions not depicted in the image. Prior works try to overcome these by inferring from multiple views or rely on scarce CAD models and category-specific priors which hinder scaling to novel settings. In this work, we explore single-view 3D reconstruction by learning generalizable representations inspired by advances in self-supervised learning. We introduce a simple framework that operates on 3D points of single objects or whole scenes coupled with category-agnostic large-scale training from diverse RGB-D videos. Our model, Multiview Compressive Coding (MCC), learns to compress the input appearance and geometry to predict the 3D structure by querying a 3D-aware decoder. MCC's generality and efficiency allow it to learn from large-scale and diverse data sources with strong generalization to novel objects imagined by DALL$\cdot$E 2 or captured in-the-wild with an iPhone.

1121
Regularizing disparity estimation via multi task learning with structured light reconstruction
2023-01-19
3D reconstruction is a useful tool for surgical planning and guidance. However, the lack of available medical data stunts research and development in this field, as supervised deep learning methods for accurate disparity estimation rely heavily on large datasets containing ground truth information. Alternative approaches to supervision have been explored, such as self-supervision, which can reduce or remove entirely the need for ground truth. However, no proposed alternatives have demonstrated performance capabilities close to what would be expected from a supervised setup. This work aims to alleviate this issue. In this paper, we investigate the learning of structured light projections to enhance the development of direct disparity estimation networks. We show for the first time that it is possible to accurately learn the projection of structured light on a scene, implicitly learning disparity. Secondly, we \textcolor{black}{explore the use of a multi task learning (MTL) framework for the joint training of structured light and disparity. We present results which show that MTL with structured light improves disparity training; without increasing the number of model parameters. Our MTL setup outperformed the single task learning (STL) network in every validation test. Notably, in the medical generalisation test, the STL error was 1.4 times worse than that of the best MTL performance. The benefit of using MTL is emphasised when the training data is limited.} A dataset containing stereoscopic images, disparity maps and structured light projections on medical phantoms and ex vivo tissue was created for evaluation together with virtual scenes. This dataset will be made publicly available in the future.

1122
3D Reconstruction of Non-cooperative Resident Space Objects using Instant NGP-accelerated NeRF and D-NeRF
2023-01-22
The proliferation of non-cooperative resident space objects (RSOs) in orbit has spurred the demand for active space debris removal, on-orbit servicing (OOS), classification, and functionality identification of these RSOs. Recent advances in computer vision have enabled high-definition 3D modeling of objects based on a set of 2D images captured from different viewing angles. This work adapts Instant NeRF and D-NeRF, variations of the neural radiance field (NeRF) algorithm to the problem of mapping RSOs in orbit for the purposes of functionality identification and assisting with OOS. The algorithms are evaluated for 3D reconstruction quality and hardware requirements using datasets of images of a spacecraft mock-up taken under two different lighting and motion conditions at the Orbital Robotic Interaction, On-Orbit Servicing and Navigation (ORION) Laboratory at Florida Institute of Technology. Instant NeRF is shown to learn high-fidelity 3D models with a computational cost that could feasibly be trained on on-board computers.

1123
Computationally Efficient 3D MRI Reconstruction with Adaptive MLP
2023-01-21
Compared with 2D MRI, 3D MRI provides superior volumetric spatial resolution and signal-to-noise ratio. However, it is more challenging to reconstruct 3D MRI images. Current methods are mainly based on convolutional neural networks (CNN) with small kernels, which are difficult to scale up to have sufficient fitting power for 3D MRI reconstruction due to the large image size and GPU memory constraint. Furthermore, MRI reconstruction is a deconvolution problem, which demands long-distance information that is difficult to capture by CNNs with small convolution kernels. The multi-layer perceptron (MLP) can model such long-distance information, but it requires a fixed input size. In this paper, we proposed Recon3DMLP, a hybrid of CNN modules with small kernels for low-frequency reconstruction and adaptive MLP (dMLP) modules with large kernels to boost the high-frequency reconstruction, for 3D MRI reconstruction. We further utilized the circular shift operation based on MRI physics such that dMLP accepts arbitrary image size and can extract global information from the entire FOV. We also propose a GPU memory efficient data fidelity module that can reduce $>$50$\%$ memory. We compared Recon3DMLP with other CNN-based models on a high-resolution (HR) 3D MRI dataset. Recon3DMLP improves HR 3D reconstruction and outperforms several existing CNN-based models under similar GPU memory consumption, which demonstrates that Recon3DMLP is a practical solution for HR 3D MRI reconstruction.

1124
Local Feature Extraction from Salient Regions by Feature Map Transformation
2023-01-25
Local feature matching is essential for many applications, such as localization and 3D reconstruction. However, it is challenging to match feature points accurately in various camera viewpoints and illumination conditions. In this paper, we propose a framework that robustly extracts and describes salient local features regardless of changing light and viewpoints. The framework suppresses illumination variations and encourages structural information to ignore the noise from light and to focus on edges. We classify the elements in the feature covariance matrix, an implicit feature map information, into two components. Our model extracts feature points from salient regions leading to reduced incorrect matches. In our experiments, the proposed method achieved higher accuracy than the state-of-the-art methods in the public dataset, such as HPatches, Aachen Day-Night, and ETH, which especially show highly variant viewpoints and illumination.

1125
A Comparison of Tiny-nerf versus Spatial Representations for 3d Reconstruction
2023-01-27
Neural rendering has emerged as a powerful paradigm for synthesizing images, offering many benefits over classical rendering by using neural networks to reconstruct surfaces, represent shapes, and synthesize novel views, either for objects or scenes. In this neural rendering, the environment is encoded into a neural network. We believe that these new representations can be used to codify the scene for a mobile robot. Therefore, in this work, we perform a comparison between a trending neural rendering, called tiny-NeRF, and other volume representations that are commonly used as maps in robotics, such as voxel maps, point clouds, and triangular meshes. The target is to know the advantages and disadvantages of neural representations in the robotics context. The comparison is made in terms of spatial complexity and processing time to obtain a model. Experiments show that tiny-NeRF requires three times less memory space compared to other representations. In terms of processing time, tiny-NeRF takes about six times more to compute the model.

1126
SNeRL: Semantic-aware Neural Radiance Fields for Reinforcement Learning
2023-01-27
As previous representations for reinforcement learning cannot effectively incorporate a human-intuitive understanding of the 3D environment, they usually suffer from sub-optimal performances. In this paper, we present Semantic-aware Neural Radiance Fields for Reinforcement Learning (SNeRL), which jointly optimizes semantic-aware neural radiance fields (NeRF) with a convolutional encoder to learn 3D-aware neural implicit representation from multi-view images. We introduce 3D semantic and distilled feature fields in parallel to the RGB radiance fields in NeRF to learn semantic and object-centric representation for reinforcement learning. SNeRL outperforms not only previous pixel-based representations but also recent 3D-aware representations both in model-free and model-based reinforcement learning.

1127
3D genome reconstruction from partially phased Hi-C data
2023-01-27
The 3-dimensional (3D) structure of the genome is of significant importance for many cellular processes. In this paper, we study the problem of reconstructing the 3D structure of chromosomes from Hi-C data of diploid organisms, which poses additional challenges compared to the better-studied haploid setting. With the help of techniques from algebraic geometry, we prove that a small amount of phased data is sufficient to ensure finite identifiability, both for noiseless and noisy data. In the light of these results, we propose a new 3D reconstruction method based on semidefinite programming, paired with numerical algebraic geometry and local optimization. The performance of this method is tested on several simulated datasets under different noise levels and with different amounts of phased data. We also apply it to a real dataset from mouse X chromosomes, and we are then able to recover previously known structural features.

1128
Mono-STAR: Mono-camera Scene-level Tracking and Reconstruction
2023-01-30
We present Mono-STAR, the first real-time 3D reconstruction system that simultaneously supports semantic fusion, fast motion tracking, non-rigid object deformation, and topological change under a unified framework. The proposed system solves a new optimization problem incorporating optical-flow-based 2D constraints to deal with fast motion and a novel semantic-aware deformation graph (SAD-graph) for handling topology change. We test the proposed system under various challenging scenes and demonstrate that it significantly outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods.

1129
3D reconstruction from spherical images: A review of techniques, applications, and prospects
2023-02-09
3D reconstruction plays an increasingly important role in modern photogrammetric systems. Conventional satellite or aerial-based remote sensing (RS) platforms can provide the necessary data sources for the 3D reconstruction of large-scale landforms and cities. Even with low-altitude UAVs (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles), 3D reconstruction in complicated situations, such as urban canyons and indoor scenes, is challenging due to frequent tracking failures between camera frames and high data collection costs. Recently, spherical images have been extensively used due to the capability of recording surrounding environments from one camera exposure. In contrast to perspective images with limited FOV (Field of View), spherical images can cover the whole scene with full horizontal and vertical FOV and facilitate camera tracking and data acquisition in these complex scenes. With the rapid evolution and extensive use of professional and consumer-grade spherical cameras, spherical images show great potential for the 3D modeling of urban and indoor scenes. Classical 3D reconstruction pipelines, however, cannot be directly used for spherical images. Besides, there exist few software packages that are designed for the 3D reconstruction of spherical images. As a result, this research provides a thorough survey of the state-of-the-art for 3D reconstruction of spherical images in terms of data acquisition, feature detection and matching, image orientation, and dense matching as well as presenting promising applications and discussing potential prospects. We anticipate that this study offers insightful clues to direct future research.

1130
Deep Learning from Parametrically Generated Virtual Buildings for Real-World Object Recognition
2023-01-03
We study the use of parametric building information modeling (BIM) to automatically generate training data for artificial neural networks (ANNs) to recognize building objects in photos. Teaching artificial intelligence (AI) machines to detect building objects in images is the foundation toward AI-assisted semantic 3D reconstruction of existing buildings. However, there exists the challenge of acquiring training data which is typically human-annotated, that is, unless a computer machine can generate high-quality data to train itself for a certain task. In that vein, we trained ANNs solely on realistic computer-generated images of 3D BIM models which were parametrically and automatically generated using the BIMGenE program. The ANN training result demonstrated generalizability and good semantic segmentation on a test case as well as arbitrary photos of buildings that are outside the range of the training data, which is significant for the future of training AI with generated data for solving real-world architectural problems.

1131
Boosted ab initio Cryo-EM 3D Reconstruction with ACE-EM
2023-02-13
The central problem in cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) is to recover the 3D structure from noisy 2D projection images which requires estimating the missing projection angles (poses). Recent methods attempted to solve the 3D reconstruction problem with the autoencoder architecture, which suffers from the latent vector space sampling problem and frequently produces suboptimal pose inferences and inferior 3D reconstructions. Here we present an improved autoencoder architecture called ACE (Asymmetric Complementary autoEncoder), based on which we designed the ACE-EM method for cryo-EM 3D reconstructions. Compared to previous methods, ACE-EM reached higher pose space coverage within the same training time and boosted the reconstruction performance regardless of the choice of decoders. With this method, the Nyquist resolution (highest possible resolution) was reached for 3D reconstructions of both simulated and experimental cryo-EM datasets. Furthermore, ACE-EM is the only amortized inference method that reached the Nyquist resolution.

1132
3D Colored Shape Reconstruction from a Single RGB Image through Diffusion
2023-02-11
We propose a novel 3d colored shape reconstruction method from a single RGB image through diffusion model. Diffusion models have shown great development potentials for high-quality 3D shape generation. However, most existing work based on diffusion models only focus on geometric shape generation, they cannot either accomplish 3D reconstruction from a single image, or produce 3D geometric shape with color information. In this work, we propose to reconstruct a 3D colored shape from a single RGB image through a novel conditional diffusion model. The reverse process of the proposed diffusion model is consisted of three modules, shape prediction module, color prediction module and NeRF-like rendering module. In shape prediction module, the reference RGB image is first encoded into a high-level shape feature and then the shape feature is utilized as a condition to predict the reverse geometric noise in diffusion model. Then the color of each 3D point updated in shape prediction module is predicted by color prediction module. Finally, a NeRF-like rendering module is designed to render the colored point cloud predicted by the former two modules to 2D image space to guide the training conditioned only on a reference image. As far as the authors know, the proposed method is the first diffusion model for 3D colored shape reconstruction from a single RGB image. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method achieves competitive performance on colored 3D shape reconstruction, and the ablation study validates the positive role of the color prediction module in improving the reconstruction quality of 3D geometric point cloud.

1133
HR-NeuS: Recovering High-Frequency Surface Geometry via Neural Implicit Surfaces
2023-02-14
Recent advances in neural implicit surfaces for multi-view 3D reconstruction primarily focus on improving large-scale surface reconstruction accuracy, but often produce over-smoothed geometries that lack fine surface details. To address this, we present High-Resolution NeuS (HR-NeuS), a novel neural implicit surface reconstruction method that recovers high-frequency surface geometry while maintaining large-scale reconstruction accuracy. We achieve this by utilizing (i) multi-resolution hash grid encoding rather than positional encoding at high frequencies, which boosts our model's expressiveness of local geometry details; (ii) a coarse-to-fine algorithmic framework that selectively applies surface regularization to coarse geometry without smoothing away fine details; (iii) a coarse-to-fine grid annealing strategy to train the network. We demonstrate through experiments on DTU and BlendedMVS datasets that our approach produces 3D geometries that are qualitatively more detailed and quantitatively of similar accuracy compared to previous approaches.

1134
A Simplified 3D Ultrasound Freehand Imaging Framework Using 1D Linear Probe and Low-Cost Mechanical Track
2023-02-16
Ultrasound imaging is the most popular medical imaging modality for point-of-care bedside imaging. However, 2D ultrasound imaging provides only limited views of the organ of interest, making diagnosis challenging. To overcome this, 3D ultrasound imaging was developed, which uses 2D ultrasound images and their orientation/position to reconstruct 3D volumes. The accurate position estimation of the ultrasound probe at low cost has always stood as a challenging task in 3D reconstruction. In this study, we propose a novel approach of using a mechanical track for ultrasound scanning, which restricts the probe motion to a linear plane, simplifying the acquisition and hence the reconstruction process. We also present an end-to-end pipeline for 3D ultrasound volume reconstruction and demonstrate its efficacy with an in-vitro tube phantom study and an ex-vivo bone experiment. The comparison between a sensorless freehand and the proposed mechanical track based acquisition is available online (shorturl.at/jqvX0).

1135
UAVStereo: A Multiple Resolution Dataset for Stereo Matching in UAV Scenarios
2023-02-20
Stereo matching is a fundamental task for 3D scene reconstruction. Recently, deep learning based methods have proven effective on some benchmark datasets, such as KITTI and Scene Flow. UAVs (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles) are commonly utilized for surface observation, and their captured images are frequently used for detailed 3D reconstruction due to high resolution and low-altitude acquisition. At present, the mainstream supervised learning network requires a significant amount of training data with ground-truth labels to learn model parameters. However, due to the scarcity of UAV stereo matching datasets, the learning-based network cannot be applied to UAV images. To facilitate further research, this paper proposes a novel pipeline to generate accurate and dense disparity maps using detailed meshes reconstructed by UAV images and LiDAR point clouds. Through the proposed pipeline, this paper constructs a multi-resolution UAV scenario dataset, called UAVStereo, with over 34k stereo image pairs covering 3 typical scenes. As far as we know, UAVStereo is the first stereo matching dataset of UAV low-altitude scenarios. The dataset includes synthetic and real stereo pairs to enable generalization from the synthetic domain to the real domain. Furthermore, our UAVStereo dataset provides multi-resolution and multi-scene images pairs to accommodate a variety of sensors and environments. In this paper, we evaluate traditional and state-of-the-art deep learning methods, highlighting their limitations in addressing challenges in UAV scenarios and offering suggestions for future research. The dataset is available at https://github.com/rebecca0011/UAVStereo.git

1136
3D Target Detection and Spectral Classification for Single-photon LiDAR Data
2023-02-20
3D single-photon LiDAR imaging has an important role in many applications. However, full deployment of this modality will require the analysis of low signal to noise ratio target returns and a very high volume of data. This is particularly evident when imaging through obscurants or in high ambient background light conditions. This paper proposes a multiscale approach for 3D surface detection from the photon timing histogram to permit a significant reduction in data volume. The resulting surfaces are background-free and can be used to infer depth and reflectivity information about the target. We demonstrate this by proposing a hierarchical Bayesian model for 3D reconstruction and spectral classification of multispectral single-photon LiDAR data. The reconstruction method promotes spatial correlation between point-cloud estimates and uses a coordinate gradient descent algorithm for parameter estimation. Results on simulated and real data show the benefits of the proposed target detection and reconstruction approaches when compared to state-of-the-art processing algorithms

1137
$PC^2$: Projection-Conditioned Point Cloud Diffusion for Single-Image 3D Reconstruction
2023-02-21
Reconstructing the 3D shape of an object from a single RGB image is a long-standing and highly challenging problem in computer vision. In this paper, we propose a novel method for single-image 3D reconstruction which generates a sparse point cloud via a conditional denoising diffusion process. Our method takes as input a single RGB image along with its camera pose and gradually denoises a set of 3D points, whose positions are initially sampled randomly from a three-dimensional Gaussian distribution, into the shape of an object. The key to our method is a geometrically-consistent conditioning process which we call projection conditioning: at each step in the diffusion process, we project local image features onto the partially-denoised point cloud from the given camera pose. This projection conditioning process enables us to generate high-resolution sparse geometries that are well-aligned with the input image, and can additionally be used to predict point colors after shape reconstruction. Moreover, due to the probabilistic nature of the diffusion process, our method is naturally capable of generating multiple different shapes consistent with a single input image. In contrast to prior work, our approach not only performs well on synthetic benchmarks, but also gives large qualitative improvements on complex real-world data.

1138
RealFusion: 360 Reconstruction of Any Object from a Single Image
2023-02-21
We consider the problem of reconstructing a full 360{\deg} photographic model of an object from a single image of it. We do so by fitting a neural radiance field to the image, but find this problem to be severely ill-posed. We thus take an off-the-self conditional image generator based on diffusion and engineer a prompt that encourages it to "dream up" novel views of the object. Using an approach inspired by DreamFields and DreamFusion, we fuse the given input view, the conditional prior, and other regularizers in a final, consistent reconstruction. We demonstrate state-of-the-art reconstruction results on benchmark images when compared to prior methods for monocular 3D reconstruction of objects. Qualitatively, our reconstructions provide a faithful match of the input view and a plausible extrapolation of its appearance and 3D shape, including to the side of the object not visible in the image.

1139
View Consistency Aware Holistic Triangulation for 3D Human Pose Estimation
2023-02-22
The rapid development of multi-view 3D human pose estimation (HPE) is attributed to the maturation of monocular 2D HPE and the geometry of 3D reconstruction. However, 2D detection outliers in occluded views due to neglect of view consistency, and 3D implausible poses due to lack of pose coherence, remain challenges. To solve this, we introduce a Multi-View Fusion module to refine 2D results by establishing view correlations. Then, Holistic Triangulation is proposed to infer the whole pose as an entirety, and anatomy prior is injected to maintain the pose coherence and improve the plausibility. Anatomy prior is extracted by PCA whose input is skeletal structure features, which can factor out global context and joint-by-joint relationship from abstract to concrete. Benefiting from the closed-form solution, the whole framework is trained end-to-end. Our method outperforms the state of the art in both precision and plausibility which is assessed by a new metric.

1140
FLSea: Underwater Visual-Inertial and Stereo-Vision Forward-Looking Datasets
2023-02-24
Visibility underwater is challenging, and degrades as the distance between the subject and camera increases, making vision tasks in the forward-looking direction more difficult. We have collected underwater forward-looking stereo-vision and visual-inertial image sets in the Mediterranean and Red Sea. To our knowledge there are no other public datasets in the underwater environment acquired with this camera-sensor orientation published with ground-truth. These datasets are critical for the development of several underwater applications, including obstacle avoidance, visual odometry, 3D tracking, Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) and depth estimation. The stereo datasets include synchronized stereo images in dynamic underwater environments with objects of known-size. The visual-inertial datasets contain monocular images and IMU measurements, aligned with millisecond resolution timestamps and objects of known size which were placed in the scene. Both sensor configurations allow for scale estimation, with the calibrated baseline in the stereo setup and the IMU in the visual-inertial setup. Ground truth depth maps were created offline for both dataset types using photogrammetry. The ground truth is validated with multiple known measurements placed throughout the imaged environment. There are 5 stereo and 8 visual-inertial datasets in total, each containing thousands of images, with a range of different underwater visibility and ambient light conditions, natural and man-made structures and dynamic camera motions. The forward-looking orientation of the camera makes these datasets unique and ideal for testing underwater obstacle-avoidance algorithms and for navigation close to the seafloor in dynamic environments. With our datasets, we hope to encourage the advancement of autonomous functionality for underwater vehicles in dynamic and/or shallow water environments.

1141
UMIFormer: Mining the Correlations between Similar Tokens for Multi-View 3D Reconstruction
2023-02-27
In recent years, many video tasks have achieved breakthroughs by utilizing the vision transformer and establishing spatial-temporal decoupling for feature extraction. Although multi-view 3D reconstruction also faces multiple images as input, it cannot immediately inherit their success due to completely ambiguous associations between unordered views. There is not usable prior relationship, which is similar to the temporally-coherence property in a video. To solve this problem, we propose a novel transformer network for Unordered Multiple Images (UMIFormer). It exploits transformer blocks for decoupled intra-view encoding and designed blocks for token rectification that mine the correlation between similar tokens from different views to achieve decoupled inter-view encoding. Afterward, all tokens acquired from various branches are compressed into a fixed-size compact representation while preserving rich information for reconstruction by leveraging the similarities between tokens. We empirically demonstrate on ShapeNet and confirm that our decoupled learning method is adaptable for unordered multiple images. Meanwhile, the experiments also verify our model outperforms existing SOTA methods by a large margin.

1142
Perceiving Unseen 3D Objects by Poking the Objects
2023-02-26
We present a novel approach to interactive 3D object perception for robots. Unlike previous perception algorithms that rely on known object models or a large amount of annotated training data, we propose a poking-based approach that automatically discovers and reconstructs 3D objects. The poking process not only enables the robot to discover unseen 3D objects but also produces multi-view observations for 3D reconstruction of the objects. The reconstructed objects are then memorized by neural networks with regular supervised learning and can be recognized in new test images. The experiments on real-world data show that our approach could unsupervisedly discover and reconstruct unseen 3D objects with high quality, and facilitate real-world applications such as robotic grasping. The code and supplementary materials are available at the project page: https://zju3dv.github.io/poking_perception.

1143
SUPS: A Simulated Underground Parking Scenario Dataset for Autonomous Driving
2023-02-25
Automatic underground parking has attracted considerable attention as the scope of autonomous driving expands. The auto-vehicle is supposed to obtain the environmental information, track its location, and build a reliable map of the scenario. Mainstream solutions consist of well-trained neural networks and simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) methods, which need numerous carefully labeled images and multiple sensor estimations. However, there is a lack of underground parking scenario datasets with multiple sensors and well-labeled images that support both SLAM tasks and perception tasks, such as semantic segmentation and parking slot detection. In this paper, we present SUPS, a simulated dataset for underground automatic parking, which supports multiple tasks with multiple sensors and multiple semantic labels aligned with successive images according to timestamps. We intend to cover the defect of existing datasets with the variability of environments and the diversity and accessibility of sensors in the virtual scene. Specifically, the dataset records frames from four surrounding fisheye cameras, two forward pinhole cameras, a depth camera, and data from LiDAR, inertial measurement unit (IMU), GNSS. Pixel-level semantic labels are provided for objects, especially ground signs such as arrows, parking lines, lanes, and speed bumps. Perception, 3D reconstruction, depth estimation, and SLAM, and other relative tasks are supported by our dataset. We also evaluate the state-of-the-art SLAM algorithms and perception models on our dataset. Finally, we open source our virtual 3D scene built based on Unity Engine and release our dataset at https://github.com/jarvishou829/SUPS.

1144
3D Surface Reconstruction in the Wild by Deforming Shape Priors from Synthetic Data
2023-02-24
Reconstructing the underlying 3D surface of an object from a single image is a challenging problem that has received extensive attention from the computer vision community. Many learning-based approaches tackle this problem by learning a 3D shape prior from either ground truth 3D data or multi-view observations. To achieve state-of-the-art results, these methods assume that the objects are specified with respect to a fixed canonical coordinate frame, where instances of the same category are perfectly aligned. In this work, we present a new method for joint category-specific 3D reconstruction and object pose estimation from a single image. We show that one can leverage shape priors learned on purely synthetic 3D data together with a point cloud pose canonicalization method to achieve high-quality 3D reconstruction in the wild. Given a single depth image at test time, we first transform this partial point cloud into a learned canonical frame. Then, we use a neural deformation field to reconstruct the 3D surface of the object. Finally, we jointly optimize object pose and 3D shape to fit the partial depth observation. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art reconstruction performance across several real-world datasets, even when trained only on synthetic data. We further show that our method generalizes to different input modalities, from dense depth images to sparse and noisy LIDAR scans.

1145
3D Coronary Vessel Reconstruction from Bi-Plane Angiography using Graph Convolutional Networks
2023-02-28
X-ray coronary angiography (XCA) is used to assess coronary artery disease and provides valuable information on lesion morphology and severity. However, XCA images are 2D and therefore limit visualisation of the vessel. 3D reconstruction of coronary vessels is possible using multiple views, however lumen border detection in current software is performed manually resulting in limited reproducibility and slow processing time. In this study we propose 3DAngioNet, a novel deep learning (DL) system that enables rapid 3D vessel mesh reconstruction using 2D XCA images from two views. Our approach learns a coarse mesh template using an EfficientB3-UNet segmentation network and projection geometries, and deforms it using a graph convolutional network. 3DAngioNet outperforms similar automated reconstruction methods, offers improved efficiency, and enables modelling of bifurcated vessels. The approach was validated using state-of-the-art software verified by skilled cardiologists.

1146
Efficient Implicit Neural Reconstruction Using LiDAR
2023-02-28
Modeling scene geometry using implicit neural representation has revealed its advantages in accuracy, flexibility, and low memory usage. Previous approaches have demonstrated impressive results using color or depth images but still have difficulty handling poor light conditions and large-scale scenes. Methods taking global point cloud as input require accurate registration and ground truth coordinate labels, which limits their application scenarios. In this paper, we propose a new method that uses sparse LiDAR point clouds and rough odometry to reconstruct fine-grained implicit occupancy field efficiently within a few minutes. We introduce a new loss function that supervises directly in 3D space without 2D rendering, avoiding information loss. We also manage to refine poses of input frames in an end-to-end manner, creating consistent geometry without global point cloud registration. As far as we know, our method is the first to reconstruct implicit scene representation from LiDAR-only input. Experiments on synthetic and real-world datasets, including indoor and outdoor scenes, prove that our method is effective, efficient, and accurate, obtaining comparable results with existing methods using dense input.

1147
Real-Time 3D Reconstruction of Colonoscopic Surfaces for Determining Missing Regions
2019-10-10
Colonoscopy is the most widely used medical technique to screen the human large intestine (colon) for cancer precursors. However, frequently parts of the surface are not visualized, and it is hard for the endoscopist to realize that from the video. Non-visualization derives from lack of orientations of the endoscope to the full circumference of parts of the colon, occlusion from colon structures, and intervening materials inside the colon. Our solution is real-time dense 3D reconstruction of colon chunks with display of the missing regions. We accomplish this by a novel deep-learning-driven dense SLAM (simultaneous localization and mapping) system that can produce a camera trajectory and a dense reconstructed surface for colon chunks (small lengths of colon). Traditional SLAM systems work poorly for the low-textured colonoscopy frames and are subject to severe scale/camera drift. In our method a recurrent neural network (RNN) is used to predict scale-consistent depth maps and camera poses of successive frames. These outputs are incorporated into a standard SLAM pipeline with local windowed optimization. The depth maps are nally fused into a global surface using the optimized camera poses. To the best of our knowledge, we are the rst to reconstruct dense colon surface from video in real time and to display missing surface.

1148
X-Ray2EM: Uncertainty-Aware Cross-Modality Image Reconstruction from X-Ray to Electron Microscopy in Connectomics
2023-03-02
Comprehensive, synapse-resolution imaging of the brain will be crucial for understanding neuronal computations and function. In connectomics, this has been the sole purview of volume electron microscopy (EM), which entails an excruciatingly difficult process because it requires cutting tissue into many thin, fragile slices that then need to be imaged, aligned, and reconstructed. Unlike EM, hard X-ray imaging is compatible with thick tissues, eliminating the need for thin sectioning, and delivering fast acquisition, intrinsic alignment, and isotropic resolution. Unfortunately, current state-of-the-art X-ray microscopy provides much lower resolution, to the extent that segmenting membranes is very challenging. We propose an uncertainty-aware 3D reconstruction model that translates X-ray images to EM-like images with enhanced membrane segmentation quality, showing its potential for developing simpler, faster, and more accurate X-ray based connectomics pipelines.

1149
Delicate Textured Mesh Recovery from NeRF via Adaptive Surface Refinement
2023-03-03
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have constituted a remarkable breakthrough in image-based 3D reconstruction. However, their implicit volumetric representations differ significantly from the widely-adopted polygonal meshes and lack support from common 3D software and hardware, making their rendering and manipulation inefficient. To overcome this limitation, we present a novel framework that generates textured surface meshes from images. Our approach begins by efficiently initializing the geometry and view-dependency decomposed appearance with a NeRF. Subsequently, a coarse mesh is extracted, and an iterative surface refining algorithm is developed to adaptively adjust both vertex positions and face density based on re-projected rendering errors. We jointly refine the appearance with geometry and bake it into texture images for real-time rendering. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method achieves superior mesh quality and competitive rendering quality.

1150
MobileBrick: Building LEGO for 3D Reconstruction on Mobile Devices
2023-03-03
High-quality 3D ground-truth shapes are critical for 3D object reconstruction evaluation. However, it is difficult to create a replica of an object in reality, and even 3D reconstructions generated by 3D scanners have artefacts that cause biases in evaluation. To address this issue, we introduce a novel multi-view RGBD dataset captured using a mobile device, which includes highly precise 3D ground-truth annotations for 153 object models featuring a diverse set of 3D structures. We obtain precise 3D ground-truth shape without relying on high-end 3D scanners by utilising LEGO models with known geometry as the 3D structures for image capture. The distinct data modality offered by high-resolution RGB images and low-resolution depth maps captured on a mobile device, when combined with precise 3D geometry annotations, presents a unique opportunity for future research on high-fidelity 3D reconstruction. Furthermore, we evaluate a range of 3D reconstruction algorithms on the proposed dataset. Project page: http://code.active.vision/MobileBrick/

1151
System for 3D Acquisition and 3D Reconstruction using Structured Light for Sewer Line Inspection
2023-03-06
The assessment of sewer pipe systems is a highly important, but at the same time cumbersome and error-prone task. We introduce an innovative system based on single-shot structured light modules that facilitates the detection and classification of spatial defects like jutting intrusions, spallings, or misaligned joints. This system creates highly accurate 3D measurements with sub-millimeter resolution of pipe surfaces and fuses them into a holistic 3D model. The benefit of such a holistic 3D model is twofold: on the one hand, it facilitates the accurate manual sewer pipe assessment, on the other, it simplifies the detection of defects in downstream automatic systems as it endows the input with highly accurate depth information. In this work, we provide an extensive overview of the system and give valuable insights into our design choices.

1152
Proactive Multi-Camera Collaboration For 3D Human Pose Estimation
2023-03-07
This paper presents a multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) scheme for proactive Multi-Camera Collaboration in 3D Human Pose Estimation in dynamic human crowds. Traditional fixed-viewpoint multi-camera solutions for human motion capture (MoCap) are limited in capture space and susceptible to dynamic occlusions. Active camera approaches proactively control camera poses to find optimal viewpoints for 3D reconstruction. However, current methods still face challenges with credit assignment and environment dynamics. To address these issues, our proposed method introduces a novel Collaborative Triangulation Contribution Reward (CTCR) that improves convergence and alleviates multi-agent credit assignment issues resulting from using 3D reconstruction accuracy as the shared reward. Additionally, we jointly train our model with multiple world dynamics learning tasks to better capture environment dynamics and encourage anticipatory behaviors for occlusion avoidance. We evaluate our proposed method in four photo-realistic UE4 environments to ensure validity and generalizability. Empirical results show that our method outperforms fixed and active baselines in various scenarios with different numbers of cameras and humans.

1153
DroNeRF: Real-time Multi-agent Drone Pose Optimization for Computing Neural Radiance Fields
2023-03-08
We present a novel optimization algorithm called DroNeRF for the autonomous positioning of monocular camera drones around an object for real-time 3D reconstruction using only a few images. Neural Radiance Fields or NeRF, is a novel view synthesis technique used to generate new views of an object or scene from a set of input images. Using drones in conjunction with NeRF provides a unique and dynamic way to generate novel views of a scene, especially with limited scene capabilities of restricted movements. Our approach focuses on calculating optimized pose for individual drones while solely depending on the object geometry without using any external localization system. The unique camera positioning during the data-capturing phase significantly impacts the quality of the 3D model. To evaluate the quality of our generated novel views, we compute different perceptual metrics like the Peak Signal-to-Noise Ratio (PSNR) and Structural Similarity Index Measure(SSIM). Our work demonstrates the benefit of using an optimal placement of various drones with limited mobility to generate perceptually better results.

1154
FastSurf: Fast Neural RGB-D Surface Reconstruction using Per-Frame Intrinsic Refinement and TSDF Fusion Prior Learning
2023-03-08
We introduce FastSurf, an accelerated neural radiance field (NeRF) framework that incorporates depth information for 3D reconstruction. A dense feature grid and shallow multi-layer perceptron are used for fast and accurate surface optimization of the entire scene. Our per-frame intrinsic refinement scheme corrects the frame-specific errors that cannot be handled by global optimization. Furthermore, FastSurf utilizes a classical real-time 3D surface reconstruction method, the truncated signed distance field (TSDF) Fusion, as prior knowledge to pretrain the feature grid to accelerate the training. The quantitative and qualitative experiments comparing the performances of FastSurf against prior work indicate that our method is capable of quickly and accurately reconstructing a scene with high-frequency details. We also demonstrate the effectiveness of our per-frame intrinsic refinement and TSDF Fusion prior learning techniques via an ablation study.

1155
Corner Detection Based on Multi-directional Gabor Filters with Multi-scales
2023-03-08
Gabor wavelet is an essential tool for image analysis and computer vision tasks. Local structure tensors with multiple scales are widely used in local feature extraction. Our research indicates that the current corner detection method based on Gabor wavelets can not effectively apply to complex scenes. In this work, the capability of the Gabor function to discriminate the intensity changes of step edges, L-shaped corners, Y-shaped or T-shaped corners, X-shaped corners, and star-shaped corners are investigated. The properties of Gabor wavelets to suppress affine image transformation are investigated and obtained. Many properties for edges and corners were discovered, which prompted us to propose a new corner extraction method. To fully use the structural information from the tuned Gabor filters, a novel multi-directional structure tensor is constructed for corner detection, and a multi-scale corner measurement function is proposed to remove false candidate corners. Furthermore, we compare the proposed method with twelve current state-of-the-art methods, which exhibit optimal performance and practical application to 3D reconstruction with good application potential.

1156
ACR: Attention Collaboration-based Regressor for Arbitrary Two-Hand Reconstruction
2023-03-10
Reconstructing two hands from monocular RGB images is challenging due to frequent occlusion and mutual confusion. Existing methods mainly learn an entangled representation to encode two interacting hands, which are incredibly fragile to impaired interaction, such as truncated hands, separate hands, or external occlusion. This paper presents ACR (Attention Collaboration-based Regressor), which makes the first attempt to reconstruct hands in arbitrary scenarios. To achieve this, ACR explicitly mitigates interdependencies between hands and between parts by leveraging center and part-based attention for feature extraction. However, reducing interdependence helps release the input constraint while weakening the mutual reasoning about reconstructing the interacting hands. Thus, based on center attention, ACR also learns cross-hand prior that handle the interacting hands better. We evaluate our method on various types of hand reconstruction datasets. Our method significantly outperforms the best interacting-hand approaches on the InterHand2.6M dataset while yielding comparable performance with the state-of-the-art single-hand methods on the FreiHand dataset. More qualitative results on in-the-wild and hand-object interaction datasets and web images/videos further demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach for arbitrary hand reconstruction. Our code is available at https://github.com/ZhengdiYu/Arbitrary-Hands-3D-Reconstruction.

1157
Structural Multiplane Image: Bridging Neural View Synthesis and 3D Reconstruction
2023-03-10
The Multiplane Image (MPI), containing a set of fronto-parallel RGBA layers, is an effective and efficient representation for view synthesis from sparse inputs. Yet, its fixed structure limits the performance, especially for surfaces imaged at oblique angles. We introduce the Structural MPI (S-MPI), where the plane structure approximates 3D scenes concisely. Conveying RGBA contexts with geometrically-faithful structures, the S-MPI directly bridges view synthesis and 3D reconstruction. It can not only overcome the critical limitations of MPI, i.e., discretization artifacts from sloped surfaces and abuse of redundant layers, and can also acquire planar 3D reconstruction. Despite the intuition and demand of applying S-MPI, great challenges are introduced, e.g., high-fidelity approximation for both RGBA layers and plane poses, multi-view consistency, non-planar regions modeling, and efficient rendering with intersected planes. Accordingly, we propose a transformer-based network based on a segmentation model. It predicts compact and expressive S-MPI layers with their corresponding masks, poses, and RGBA contexts. Non-planar regions are inclusively handled as a special case in our unified framework. Multi-view consistency is ensured by sharing global proxy embeddings, which encode plane-level features covering the complete 3D scenes with aligned coordinates. Intensive experiments show that our method outperforms both previous state-of-the-art MPI-based view synthesis methods and planar reconstruction methods.

1158
Normal-guided Garment UV Prediction for Human Re-texturing
2023-03-11
Clothes undergo complex geometric deformations, which lead to appearance changes. To edit human videos in a physically plausible way, a texture map must take into account not only the garment transformation induced by the body movements and clothes fitting, but also its 3D fine-grained surface geometry. This poses, however, a new challenge of 3D reconstruction of dynamic clothes from an image or a video. In this paper, we show that it is possible to edit dressed human images and videos without 3D reconstruction. We estimate a geometry aware texture map between the garment region in an image and the texture space, a.k.a, UV map. Our UV map is designed to preserve isometry with respect to the underlying 3D surface by making use of the 3D surface normals predicted from the image. Our approach captures the underlying geometry of the garment in a self-supervised way, requiring no ground truth annotation of UV maps and can be readily extended to predict temporally coherent UV maps. We demonstrate that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art human UV map estimation approaches on both real and synthetic data.

1159
FingerSLAM: Closed-loop Unknown Object Localization and Reconstruction from Visuo-tactile Feedback
2023-03-14
In this paper, we address the problem of using visuo-tactile feedback for 6-DoF localization and 3D reconstruction of unknown in-hand objects. We propose FingerSLAM, a closed-loop factor graph-based pose estimator that combines local tactile sensing at finger-tip and global vision sensing from a wrist-mount camera. FingerSLAM is constructed with two constituent pose estimators: a multi-pass refined tactile-based pose estimator that captures movements from detailed local textures, and a single-pass vision-based pose estimator that predicts from a global view of the object. We also design a loop closure mechanism that actively matches current vision and tactile images to previously stored key-frames to reduce accumulated error. FingerSLAM incorporates the two sensing modalities of tactile and vision, as well as the loop closure mechanism with a factor graph-based optimization framework. Such a framework produces an optimized pose estimation solution that is more accurate than the standalone estimators. The estimated poses are then used to reconstruct the shape of the unknown object incrementally by stitching the local point clouds recovered from tactile images. We train our system on real-world data collected with 20 objects. We demonstrate reliable visuo-tactile pose estimation and shape reconstruction through quantitative and qualitative real-world evaluations on 6 objects that are unseen during training.

1160
Fast 3D Volumetric Image Reconstruction from 2D MRI Slices by Parallel Processing
2023-03-16
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) is a technology for non-invasive imaging of anatomical features in detail. It can help in functional analysis of organs of a specimen but it is very costly. In this work, methods for (i) virtual three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction from a single sequence of two-dimensional (2D) slices of MR images of a human spine and brain along a single axis, and (ii) generation of missing inter-slice data are proposed. Our approach helps in preserving the edges, shape, size, as well as the internal tissue structures of the object being captured. The sequence of original 2D slices along a single axis is divided into smaller equal sub-parts which are then reconstructed using edge preserved kriging interpolation to predict the missing slice information. In order to speed up the process of interpolation, we have used multiprocessing by carrying out the initial interpolation on parallel cores. From the 3D matrix thus formed, shearlet transform is applied to estimate the edges considering the 2D blocks along the $Z$ axis, and to minimize the blurring effect using a proposed mean-median logic. Finally, for visualization, the sub-matrices are merged into a final 3D matrix. Next, the newly formed 3D matrix is split up into voxels and marching cubes method is applied to get the approximate 3D image for viewing. To the best of our knowledge it is a first of its kind approach based on kriging interpolation and multiprocessing for 3D reconstruction from 2D slices, and approximately 98.89\% accuracy is achieved with respect to similarity metrics for image comparison. The time required for reconstruction has also been reduced by approximately 70\% with multiprocessing even for a large input data set compared to that with single core processing.

1161
Zero-1-to-3: Zero-shot One Image to 3D Object
2023-03-20
We introduce Zero-1-to-3, a framework for changing the camera viewpoint of an object given just a single RGB image. To perform novel view synthesis in this under-constrained setting, we capitalize on the geometric priors that large-scale diffusion models learn about natural images. Our conditional diffusion model uses a synthetic dataset to learn controls of the relative camera viewpoint, which allow new images to be generated of the same object under a specified camera transformation. Even though it is trained on a synthetic dataset, our model retains a strong zero-shot generalization ability to out-of-distribution datasets as well as in-the-wild images, including impressionist paintings. Our viewpoint-conditioned diffusion approach can further be used for the task of 3D reconstruction from a single image. Qualitative and quantitative experiments show that our method significantly outperforms state-of-the-art single-view 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis models by leveraging Internet-scale pre-training.

1162
DIME-Net: Neural Network-Based Dynamic Intrinsic Parameter Rectification for Cameras with Optical Image Stabilization System
2023-03-20
Optical Image Stabilization (OIS) system in mobile devices reduces image blurring by steering lens to compensate for hand jitters. However, OIS changes intrinsic camera parameters (i.e. $\mathrm{K}$ matrix) dynamically which hinders accurate camera pose estimation or 3D reconstruction. Here we propose a novel neural network-based approach that estimates $\mathrm{K}$ matrix in real-time so that pose estimation or scene reconstruction can be run at camera native resolution for the highest accuracy on mobile devices. Our network design takes gratified projection model discrepancy feature and 3D point positions as inputs and employs a Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) to approximate $f_{\mathrm{K}}$ manifold. We also design a unique training scheme for this network by introducing a Back propagated PnP (BPnP) layer so that reprojection error can be adopted as the loss function. The training process utilizes precise calibration patterns for capturing accurate $f_{\mathrm{K}}$ manifold but the trained network can be used anywhere. We name the proposed Dynamic Intrinsic Manifold Estimation network as DIME-Net and have it implemented and tested on three different mobile devices. In all cases, DIME-Net can reduce reprojection error by at least $64\%$ indicating that our design is successful.

1163
Ref-NeuS: Ambiguity-Reduced Neural Implicit Surface Learning for Multi-View Reconstruction with Reflection
2023-03-20
Neural implicit surface learning has shown significant progress in multi-view 3D reconstruction, where an object is represented by multilayer perceptrons that provide continuous implicit surface representation and view-dependent radiance. However, current methods often fail to accurately reconstruct reflective surfaces, leading to severe ambiguity. To overcome this issue, we propose Ref-NeuS, which aims to reduce ambiguity by attenuating the effect of reflective surfaces. Specifically, we utilize an anomaly detector to estimate an explicit reflection score with the guidance of multi-view context to localize reflective surfaces. Afterward, we design a reflection-aware photometric loss that adaptively reduces ambiguity by modeling rendered color as a Gaussian distribution, with the reflection score representing the variance. We show that together with a reflection direction-dependent radiance, our model achieves high-quality surface reconstruction on reflective surfaces and outperforms the state-of-the-arts by a large margin. Besides, our model is also comparable on general surfaces.

1164
Real-time volumetric rendering of dynamic humans
2023-03-21
We present a method for fast 3D reconstruction and real-time rendering of dynamic humans from monocular videos with accompanying parametric body fits. Our method can reconstruct a dynamic human in less than 3h using a single GPU, compared to recent state-of-the-art alternatives that take up to 72h. These speedups are obtained by using a lightweight deformation model solely based on linear blend skinning, and an efficient factorized volumetric representation for modeling the shape and color of the person in canonical pose. Moreover, we propose a novel local ray marching rendering which, by exploiting standard GPU hardware and without any baking or conversion of the radiance field, allows visualizing the neural human on a mobile VR device at 40 frames per second with minimal loss of visual quality. Our experimental evaluation shows superior or competitive results with state-of-the art methods while obtaining large training speedup, using a simple model, and achieving real-time rendering.

1165
Oral-NeXF: 3D Oral Reconstruction with Neural X-ray Field from Panoramic Imaging
2023-03-21
3D reconstruction of medical images from 2D images has increasingly become a challenging research topic with the advanced development of deep learning methods. Previous work in 3D reconstruction from limited (generally one or two) X-ray images mainly relies on learning from paired 2D and 3D images. In 3D oral reconstruction from panoramic imaging, the model also relies on some prior individual information, such as the dental arch curve or voxel-wise annotations, to restore the curved shape of the mandible during reconstruction. These limitations have hindered the use of single X-ray tomography in clinical applications. To address these challenges, we propose a new model that relies solely on projection data, including imaging direction and projection image, during panoramic scans to reconstruct the 3D oral structure. Our model builds on the neural radiance field by introducing multi-head prediction, dynamic sampling, and adaptive rendering, which accommodates the projection process of panoramic X-ray in dental imaging. Compared to end-to-end learning methods, our method achieves state-of-the-art performance without requiring additional supervision or prior knowledge.

1166
Robust single-shot 3D fluorescence imaging in scattering media with a simulator-trained neural network
2023-03-22
Imaging through scattering is a pervasive and difficult problem in many biological applications. The high background and the exponentially attenuated target signals due to scattering fundamentally limits the imaging depth of fluorescence microscopy. Light-field systems are favorable for high-speed volumetric imaging, but the 2D-to-3D reconstruction is fundamentally ill-posed and scattering exacerbates the condition of the inverse problem. Here, we develop a scattering simulator that models low-contrast target signals buried in heterogeneous strong background. We then train a deep neural network solely on synthetic data to descatter and reconstruct a 3D volume from a single-shot light-field measurement with low signal-to-background ratio (SBR). We apply this network to our previously developed Computational Miniature Mesoscope and demonstrate the robustness of our deep learning algorithm on a 75 micron thick fixed mouse brain section and on bulk scattering phantoms with different scattering conditions. The network can robustly reconstruct emitters in 3D with a 2D measurement of SBR as low as 1.05 and as deep as a scattering length. We analyze fundamental tradeoffs based on network design factors and out-of-distribution data that affect the deep learning model's generalizability to real experimental data. Broadly, we believe that our simulator-based deep learning approach can be applied to a wide range of imaging through scattering techniques where experimental paired training data is lacking.

1167
BundleSDF: Neural 6-DoF Tracking and 3D Reconstruction of Unknown Objects
2023-03-24
We present a near real-time method for 6-DoF tracking of an unknown object from a monocular RGBD video sequence, while simultaneously performing neural 3D reconstruction of the object. Our method works for arbitrary rigid objects, even when visual texture is largely absent. The object is assumed to be segmented in the first frame only. No additional information is required, and no assumption is made about the interaction agent. Key to our method is a Neural Object Field that is learned concurrently with a pose graph optimization process in order to robustly accumulate information into a consistent 3D representation capturing both geometry and appearance. A dynamic pool of posed memory frames is automatically maintained to facilitate communication between these threads. Our approach handles challenging sequences with large pose changes, partial and full occlusion, untextured surfaces, and specular highlights. We show results on HO3D, YCBInEOAT, and BEHAVE datasets, demonstrating that our method significantly outperforms existing approaches. Project page: https://bundlesdf.github.io

1168
WildLight: In-the-wild Inverse Rendering with a Flashlight
2023-03-24
This paper proposes a practical photometric solution for the challenging problem of in-the-wild inverse rendering under unknown ambient lighting. Our system recovers scene geometry and reflectance using only multi-view images captured by a smartphone. The key idea is to exploit smartphone's built-in flashlight as a minimally controlled light source, and decompose image intensities into two photometric components -- a static appearance corresponds to ambient flux, plus a dynamic reflection induced by the moving flashlight. Our method does not require flash/non-flash images to be captured in pairs. Building on the success of neural light fields, we use an off-the-shelf method to capture the ambient reflections, while the flashlight component enables physically accurate photometric constraints to decouple reflectance and illumination. Compared to existing inverse rendering methods, our setup is applicable to non-darkroom environments yet sidesteps the inherent difficulties of explicit solving ambient reflections. We demonstrate by extensive experiments that our method is easy to implement, casual to set up, and consistently outperforms existing in-the-wild inverse rendering techniques. Finally, our neural reconstruction can be easily exported to PBR textured triangle mesh ready for industrial renderers.

1169
Deformable Model Driven Neural Rendering for High-fidelity 3D Reconstruction of Human Heads Under Low-View Settings
2023-03-24
We propose a robust method for learning neural implicit functions that can reconstruct 3D human heads with high-fidelity geometry from low-view inputs. We represent 3D human heads as the zero level-set of a composed signed distance field that consists of a smooth template, a non-rigid deformation, and a high-frequency displacement field. The template represents identity-independent and expression-neutral features, which is trained on multiple individuals, along with the deformation network. The displacement field encodes identity-dependent geometric details, trained for each specific individual. We train our network in two stages using a coarse-to-fine strategy without 3D supervision. Our experiments demonstrate that the geometry decomposition and two-stage training make our method robust and our model outperforms existing methods in terms of reconstruction accuracy and novel view synthesis under low-view settings. Additionally, the pre-trained template serves a good initialization for our model to adapt to unseen individuals.

1170
Seeing Through the Glass: Neural 3D Reconstruction of Object Inside a Transparent Container
2023-03-24
In this paper, we define a new problem of recovering the 3D geometry of an object confined in a transparent enclosure. We also propose a novel method for solving this challenging problem. Transparent enclosures pose challenges of multiple light reflections and refractions at the interface between different propagation media e.g. air or glass. These multiple reflections and refractions cause serious image distortions which invalidate the single viewpoint assumption. Hence the 3D geometry of such objects cannot be reliably reconstructed using existing methods, such as traditional structure from motion or modern neural reconstruction methods. We solve this problem by explicitly modeling the scene as two distinct sub-spaces, inside and outside the transparent enclosure. We use an existing neural reconstruction method (NeuS) that implicitly represents the geometry and appearance of the inner subspace. In order to account for complex light interactions, we develop a hybrid rendering strategy that combines volume rendering with ray tracing. We then recover the underlying geometry and appearance of the model by minimizing the difference between the real and hybrid rendered images. We evaluate our method on both synthetic and real data. Experiment results show that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art (SOTA) methods. Codes and data will be available at https://github.com/hirotong/ReNeuS

1171
Zolly: Zoom Focal Length Correctly for Perspective-Distorted Human Mesh Reconstruction
2023-03-24
As it is hard to calibrate single-view RGB images in the wild, existing 3D human mesh reconstruction (3DHMR) methods either use a constant large focal length or estimate one based on the background environment context, which can not tackle the problem of the torso, limb, hand or face distortion caused by perspective camera projection when the camera is close to the human body. The naive focal length assumptions can harm this task with the incorrectly formulated projection matrices. To solve this, we propose Zolly, the first 3DHMR method focusing on perspective-distorted images. Our approach begins with analysing the reason for perspective distortion, which we find is mainly caused by the relative location of the human body to the camera center. We propose a new camera model and a novel 2D representation, termed distortion image, which describes the 2D dense distortion scale of the human body. We then estimate the distance from distortion scale features rather than environment context features. Afterwards, we integrate the distortion feature with image features to reconstruct the body mesh. To formulate the correct projection matrix and locate the human body position, we simultaneously use perspective and weak-perspective projection loss. Since existing datasets could not handle this task, we propose the first synthetic dataset PDHuman and extend two real-world datasets tailored for this task, all containing perspective-distorted human images. Extensive experiments show that Zolly outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods on both perspective-distorted datasets and the standard benchmark (3DPW).

1172
SCADE: NeRFs from Space Carving with Ambiguity-Aware Depth Estimates
2023-03-23
Neural radiance fields (NeRFs) have enabled high fidelity 3D reconstruction from multiple 2D input views. However, a well-known drawback of NeRFs is the less-than-ideal performance under a small number of views, due to insufficient constraints enforced by volumetric rendering. To address this issue, we introduce SCADE, a novel technique that improves NeRF reconstruction quality on sparse, unconstrained input views for in-the-wild indoor scenes. To constrain NeRF reconstruction, we leverage geometric priors in the form of per-view depth estimates produced with state-of-the-art monocular depth estimation models, which can generalize across scenes. A key challenge is that monocular depth estimation is an ill-posed problem, with inherent ambiguities. To handle this issue, we propose a new method that learns to predict, for each view, a continuous, multimodal distribution of depth estimates using conditional Implicit Maximum Likelihood Estimation (cIMLE). In order to disambiguate exploiting multiple views, we introduce an original space carving loss that guides the NeRF representation to fuse multiple hypothesized depth maps from each view and distill from them a common geometry that is consistent with all views. Experiments show that our approach enables higher fidelity novel view synthesis from sparse views. Our project page can be found at https://scade-spacecarving-nerfs.github.io .

1173
NeUDF: Learning Unsigned Distance Fields from Multi-view Images for Reconstructing Non-watertight Models
2023-03-27
Volume rendering-based 3D reconstruction from multi-view images has gained popularity in recent years, largely due to the success of neural radiance fields (NeRF). A number of methods have been developed that build upon NeRF and use neural volume rendering to learn signed distance fields (SDFs) for reconstructing 3D models. However, SDF-based methods cannot represent non-watertight models and, therefore, cannot capture open boundaries. This paper proposes a new algorithm for learning an accurate unsigned distance field (UDF) from multi-view images, which is specifically designed for reconstructing non-watertight, textureless models. The proposed method, called NeUDF, addresses the limitations of existing UDF-based methods by introducing a simple and approximately unbiased and occlusion-aware density function. In addition, a smooth and differentiable UDF representation is presented to make the learning process easier and more efficient. Experiments on both texture-rich and textureless models demonstrate the robustness and effectiveness of the proposed approach, making it a promising solution for reconstructing challenging 3D models from multi-view images.

1174
TMO: Textured Mesh Acquisition of Objects with a Mobile Device by using Differentiable Rendering
2023-03-27
We present a new pipeline for acquiring a textured mesh in the wild with a single smartphone which offers access to images, depth maps, and valid poses. Our method first introduces an RGBD-aided structure from motion, which can yield filtered depth maps and refines camera poses guided by corresponding depth. Then, we adopt the neural implicit surface reconstruction method, which allows for high-quality mesh and develops a new training process for applying a regularization provided by classical multi-view stereo methods. Moreover, we apply a differentiable rendering to fine-tune incomplete texture maps and generate textures which are perceptually closer to the original scene. Our pipeline can be applied to any common objects in the real world without the need for either in-the-lab environments or accurate mask images. We demonstrate results of captured objects with complex shapes and validate our method numerically against existing 3D reconstruction and texture mapping methods.

1175
Clean-NeRF: Reformulating NeRF to account for View-Dependent Observations
2023-03-26
While Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) had achieved unprecedented novel view synthesis results, they have been struggling in dealing with large-scale cluttered scenes with sparse input views and highly view-dependent appearances. Specifically, existing NeRF-based models tend to produce blurry rendering with the volumetric reconstruction often inaccurate, where a lot of reconstruction errors are observed in the form of foggy "floaters" hovering within the entire volume of an opaque 3D scene. Such inaccuracies impede NeRF's potential for accurate 3D NeRF registration, object detection, segmentation, etc., which possibly accounts for only limited significant research effort so far to directly address these important 3D fundamental computer vision problems to date. This paper analyzes the NeRF's struggles in such settings and proposes Clean-NeRF for accurate 3D reconstruction and novel view rendering in complex scenes. Our key insights consist of enforcing effective appearance and geometry constraints, which are absent in the conventional NeRF reconstruction, by 1) automatically detecting and modeling view-dependent appearances in the training views to prevent them from interfering with density estimation, which is complete with 2) a geometric correction procedure performed on each traced ray during inference. Clean-NeRF can be implemented as a plug-in that can immediately benefit existing NeRF-based methods without additional input. Codes will be released.

1176
PAniC-3D: Stylized Single-view 3D Reconstruction from Portraits of Anime Characters
2023-03-25
We propose PAniC-3D, a system to reconstruct stylized 3D character heads directly from illustrated (p)ortraits of (ani)me (c)haracters. Our anime-style domain poses unique challenges to single-view reconstruction; compared to natural images of human heads, character portrait illustrations have hair and accessories with more complex and diverse geometry, and are shaded with non-photorealistic contour lines. In addition, there is a lack of both 3D model and portrait illustration data suitable to train and evaluate this ambiguous stylized reconstruction task. Facing these challenges, our proposed PAniC-3D architecture crosses the illustration-to-3D domain gap with a line-filling model, and represents sophisticated geometries with a volumetric radiance field. We train our system with two large new datasets (11.2k Vroid 3D models, 1k Vtuber portrait illustrations), and evaluate on a novel AnimeRecon benchmark of illustration-to-3D pairs. PAniC-3D significantly outperforms baseline methods, and provides data to establish the task of stylized reconstruction from portrait illustrations.

1177
LPFF: A Portrait Dataset for Face Generators Across Large Poses
2023-03-25
The creation of 2D realistic facial images and 3D face shapes using generative networks has been a hot topic in recent years. Existing face generators exhibit exceptional performance on faces in small to medium poses (with respect to frontal faces) but struggle to produce realistic results for large poses. The distorted rendering results on large poses in 3D-aware generators further show that the generated 3D face shapes are far from the distribution of 3D faces in reality. We find that the above issues are caused by the training dataset's pose imbalance. In this paper, we present LPFF, a large-pose Flickr face dataset comprised of 19,590 high-quality real large-pose portrait images. We utilize our dataset to train a 2D face generator that can process large-pose face images, as well as a 3D-aware generator that can generate realistic human face geometry. To better validate our pose-conditional 3D-aware generators, we develop a new FID measure to evaluate the 3D-level performance. Through this novel FID measure and other experiments, we show that LPFF can help 2D face generators extend their latent space and better manipulate the large-pose data, and help 3D-aware face generators achieve better view consistency and more realistic 3D reconstruction results.

1178
Multi-View Azimuth Stereo via Tangent Space Consistency
2023-03-29
We present a method for 3D reconstruction only using calibrated multi-view surface azimuth maps. Our method, multi-view azimuth stereo, is effective for textureless or specular surfaces, which are difficult for conventional multi-view stereo methods. We introduce the concept of tangent space consistency: Multi-view azimuth observations of a surface point should be lifted to the same tangent space. Leveraging this consistency, we recover the shape by optimizing a neural implicit surface representation. Our method harnesses the robust azimuth estimation capabilities of photometric stereo methods or polarization imaging while bypassing potentially complex zenith angle estimation. Experiments using azimuth maps from various sources validate the accurate shape recovery with our method, even without zenith angles.

1179
Enhanced Stable View Synthesis
2023-03-30
We introduce an approach to enhance the novel view synthesis from images taken from a freely moving camera. The introduced approach focuses on outdoor scenes where recovering accurate geometric scaffold and camera pose is challenging, leading to inferior results using the state-of-the-art stable view synthesis (SVS) method. SVS and related methods fail for outdoor scenes primarily due to (i) over-relying on the multiview stereo (MVS) for geometric scaffold recovery and (ii) assuming COLMAP computed camera poses as the best possible estimates, despite it being well-studied that MVS 3D reconstruction accuracy is limited to scene disparity and camera-pose accuracy is sensitive to key-point correspondence selection. This work proposes a principled way to enhance novel view synthesis solutions drawing inspiration from the basics of multiple view geometry. By leveraging the complementary behavior of MVS and monocular depth, we arrive at a better scene depth per view for nearby and far points, respectively. Moreover, our approach jointly refines camera poses with image-based rendering via multiple rotation averaging graph optimization. The recovered scene depth and the camera-pose help better view-dependent on-surface feature aggregation of the entire scene. Extensive evaluation of our approach on the popular benchmark dataset, such as Tanks and Temples, shows substantial improvement in view synthesis results compared to the prior art. For instance, our method shows 1.5 dB of PSNR improvement on the Tank and Temples. Similar statistics are observed when tested on other benchmark datasets such as FVS, Mip-NeRF 360, and DTU.

1180
LivePose: Online 3D Reconstruction from Monocular Video with Dynamic Camera Poses
2023-03-31
Dense 3D reconstruction from RGB images traditionally assumes static camera pose estimates. This assumption has endured, even as recent works have increasingly focused on real-time methods for mobile devices. However, the assumption of one pose per image does not hold for online execution: poses from real-time SLAM are dynamic and may be updated following events such as bundle adjustment and loop closure. This has been addressed in the RGB-D setting, by de-integrating past views and re-integrating them with updated poses, but it remains largely untreated in the RGB-only setting. We formalize this problem to define the new task of online reconstruction from dynamically-posed images. To support further research, we introduce a dataset called LivePose containing the dynamic poses from a SLAM system running on ScanNet. We select three recent reconstruction systems and apply a framework based on de-integration to adapt each one to the dynamic-pose setting. In addition, we propose a novel, non-linear de-integration module that learns to remove stale scene content. We show that responding to pose updates is critical for high-quality reconstruction, and that our de-integration framework is an effective solution.

1181
USTC FLICAR: A Sensors Fusion Dataset of LiDAR-Inertial-Camera for Heavy-duty Autonomous Aerial Work Robots
2023-04-04
In this paper, we present the USTC FLICAR Dataset, which is dedicated to the development of simultaneous localization and mapping and precise 3D reconstruction of the workspace for heavy-duty autonomous aerial work robots. In recent years, numerous public datasets have played significant roles in the advancement of autonomous cars and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). However, these two platforms differ from aerial work robots: UAVs are limited in their payload capacity, while cars are restricted to two-dimensional movements. To fill this gap, we create the "Giraffe" mapping robot based on a bucket truck, which is equipped with a variety of well-calibrated and synchronized sensors: four 3D LiDARs, two stereo cameras, two monocular cameras, Inertial Measurement Units (IMUs), and a GNSS/INS system. A laser tracker is used to record the millimeter-level ground truth positions. We also make its ground twin, the "Okapi" mapping robot, to gather data for comparison. The proposed dataset extends the typical autonomous driving sensing suite to aerial scenes, demonstrating the potential of combining autonomous driving perception systems with bucket trucks to create a versatile autonomous aerial working platform. Moreover, based on the Segment Anything Model (SAM), we produce the Semantic FLICAR dataset, which provides fine-grained semantic segmentation annotations for multimodal continuous data in both temporal and spatial dimensions. The dataset is available for download at: https://ustc-flicar.github.io/.

1182
End-to-End Latency Optimization of Multi-view 3D Reconstruction for Disaster Response
2023-04-04
In order to plan rapid response during disasters, first responder agencies often adopt `bring your own device' (BYOD) model with inexpensive mobile edge devices (e.g., drones, robots, tablets) for complex video analytics applications, e.g., 3D reconstruction of a disaster scene. Unlike simpler video applications, widely used Multi-view Stereo (MVS) based 3D reconstruction applications (e.g., openMVG/openMVS) are exceedingly time consuming, especially when run on such computationally constrained mobile edge devices. Additionally, reducing the reconstruction latency of such inherently sequential algorithms is challenging as unintelligent, application-agnostic strategies can drastically degrade the reconstruction (i.e., application outcome) quality making them useless. In this paper, we aim to design a latency optimized MVS algorithm pipeline, with the objective to best balance the end-to-end latency and reconstruction quality by running the pipeline on a collaborative mobile edge environment. The overall optimization approach is two-pronged where: (a) application optimizations introduce data-level parallelism by splitting the pipeline into high frequency and low frequency reconstruction components and (b) system optimizations incorporate task-level parallelism to the pipelines by running them opportunistically on available resources with online quality control in order to balance both latency and quality. Our evaluation on a hardware testbed using publicly available datasets shows upto ~54% reduction in latency with negligible loss (~4-7%) in reconstruction quality.

1183
FineRecon: Depth-aware Feed-forward Network for Detailed 3D Reconstruction
2023-04-04
Recent works on 3D reconstruction from posed images have demonstrated that direct inference of scene-level 3D geometry without iterative optimization is feasible using a deep neural network, showing remarkable promise and high efficiency. However, the reconstructed geometries, typically represented as a 3D truncated signed distance function (TSDF), are often coarse without fine geometric details. To address this problem, we propose three effective solutions for improving the fidelity of inference-based 3D reconstructions. We first present a resolution-agnostic TSDF supervision strategy to provide the network with a more accurate learning signal during training, avoiding the pitfalls of TSDF interpolation seen in previous work. We then introduce a depth guidance strategy using multi-view depth estimates to enhance the scene representation and recover more accurate surfaces. Finally, we develop a novel architecture for the final layers of the network, conditioning the output TSDF prediction on high-resolution image features in addition to coarse voxel features, enabling sharper reconstruction of fine details. Our method produces smooth and highly accurate reconstructions, showing significant improvements across multiple depth and 3D reconstruction metrics.

1184
Real-Time Tilt Undersampling Optimization during Electron Tomography of Beam Sensitive Samples using Golden Ratio Scanning and RECAST3D
2023-04-01
Electron tomography is a widely used technique for 3D structural analysis of nanomaterials, but it can cause damage to samples due to high electron doses and long exposure times. To minimize such damage, researchers often reduce beam exposure by acquiring fewer projections through tilt undersampling. However, this approach can also introduce reconstruction artifacts due to insufficient sampling. Therefore, it is important to determine the optimal number of projections that minimizes both beam exposure and undersampling artifacts for accurate reconstructions of beam-sensitive samples. Current methods for determining this optimal number of projections involve acquiring and post-processing multiple reconstructions with different numbers of projections, which can be time-consuming and requires multiple samples due to sample damage. To improve this process, we propose a protocol that combines golden ratio scanning and quasi-3D reconstruction to estimate the optimal number of projections in real-time during a single acquisition. This protocol was validated using simulated and realistic nanoparticles, and was successfully applied to reconstruct two beam-sensitive metal-organic framework complexes.

1185
Neural Fields meet Explicit Geometric Representation for Inverse Rendering of Urban Scenes
2023-04-06
Reconstruction and intrinsic decomposition of scenes from captured imagery would enable many applications such as relighting and virtual object insertion. Recent NeRF based methods achieve impressive fidelity of 3D reconstruction, but bake the lighting and shadows into the radiance field, while mesh-based methods that facilitate intrinsic decomposition through differentiable rendering have not yet scaled to the complexity and scale of outdoor scenes. We present a novel inverse rendering framework for large urban scenes capable of jointly reconstructing the scene geometry, spatially-varying materials, and HDR lighting from a set of posed RGB images with optional depth. Specifically, we use a neural field to account for the primary rays, and use an explicit mesh (reconstructed from the underlying neural field) for modeling secondary rays that produce higher-order lighting effects such as cast shadows. By faithfully disentangling complex geometry and materials from lighting effects, our method enables photorealistic relighting with specular and shadow effects on several outdoor datasets. Moreover, it supports physics-based scene manipulations such as virtual object insertion with ray-traced shadow casting.

1186
Deep learning-based image exposure enhancement as a pre-processing for an accurate 3D colon surface reconstruction
2023-04-06
This contribution shows how an appropriate image pre-processing can improve a deep-learning based 3D reconstruction of colon parts. The assumption is that, rather than global image illumination corrections, local under- and over-exposures should be corrected in colonoscopy. An overview of the pipeline including the image exposure correction and a RNN-SLAM is first given. Then, this paper quantifies the reconstruction accuracy of the endoscope trajectory in the colon with and without appropriate illumination correction

1187
DeLiRa: Self-Supervised Depth, Light, and Radiance Fields
2023-04-06
Differentiable volumetric rendering is a powerful paradigm for 3D reconstruction and novel view synthesis. However, standard volume rendering approaches struggle with degenerate geometries in the case of limited viewpoint diversity, a common scenario in robotics applications. In this work, we propose to use the multi-view photometric objective from the self-supervised depth estimation literature as a geometric regularizer for volumetric rendering, significantly improving novel view synthesis without requiring additional information. Building upon this insight, we explore the explicit modeling of scene geometry using a generalist Transformer, jointly learning a radiance field as well as depth and light fields with a set of shared latent codes. We demonstrate that sharing geometric information across tasks is mutually beneficial, leading to improvements over single-task learning without an increase in network complexity. Our DeLiRa architecture achieves state-of-the-art results on the ScanNet benchmark, enabling high quality volumetric rendering as well as real-time novel view and depth synthesis in the limited viewpoint diversity setting.

1188
Image Stabilization for Hololens Camera in Remote Collaboration
2023-04-05
With the advent of new technologies, Augmented Reality (AR) has become an effective tool in remote collaboration. Narrow field-of-view (FoV) and motion blur can offer an unpleasant experience with limited cognition for remote viewers of AR headsets. In this article, we propose a two-stage pipeline to tackle this issue and ensure a stable viewing experience with a larger FoV. The solution involves an offline 3D reconstruction of the indoor environment, followed by enhanced rendering using only the live poses of AR device. We experiment with and evaluate the two different 3D reconstruction methods, RGB-D geometric approach and Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF), based on their data requirements, reconstruction quality, rendering, and training times. The generated sequences from these methods had smoother transitions and provided a better perspective of the environment. The geometry-based enhanced FoV method had better renderings as it lacked blurry outputs making it better than the other attempted approaches. Structural Similarity Index (SSIM) and Peak Signal to Noise Ratio (PSNR) metrics were used to quantitatively show that the rendering quality using the geometry-based enhanced FoV method is better. Link to the code repository - https://github.com/MixedRealityETHZ/ImageStabilization.

1189
Real-Time Dense 3D Mapping of Underwater Environments
2023-04-05
This paper addresses real-time dense 3D reconstruction for a resource-constrained Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV). Underwater vision-guided operations are among the most challenging as they combine 3D motion in the presence of external forces, limited visibility, and absence of global positioning. Obstacle avoidance and effective path planning require online dense reconstructions of the environment. Autonomous operation is central to environmental monitoring, marine archaeology, resource utilization, and underwater cave exploration. To address this problem, we propose to use SVIn2, a robust VIO method, together with a real-time 3D reconstruction pipeline. We provide extensive evaluation on four challenging underwater datasets. Our pipeline produces comparable reconstruction with that of COLMAP, the state-of-the-art offline 3D reconstruction method, at high frame rates on a single CPU.

1190
ALIKED: A Lighter Keypoint and Descriptor Extraction Network via Deformable Transformation
2023-04-07
Image keypoints and descriptors play a crucial role in many visual measurement tasks. In recent years, deep neural networks have been widely used to improve the performance of keypoint and descriptor extraction. However, the conventional convolution operations do not provide the geometric invariance required for the descriptor. To address this issue, we propose the Sparse Deformable Descriptor Head (SDDH), which learns the deformable positions of supporting features for each keypoint and constructs deformable descriptors. Furthermore, SDDH extracts descriptors at sparse keypoints instead of a dense descriptor map, which enables efficient extraction of descriptors with strong expressiveness. In addition, we relax the neural reprojection error (NRE) loss from dense to sparse to train the extracted sparse descriptors. Experimental results show that the proposed network is both efficient and powerful in various visual measurement tasks, including image matching, 3D reconstruction, and visual relocalization.

1191
3D GANs and Latent Space: A comprehensive survey
2023-04-08
Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) have emerged as a significant player in generative modeling by mapping lower-dimensional random noise to higher-dimensional spaces. These networks have been used to generate high-resolution images and 3D objects. The efficient modeling of 3D objects and human faces is crucial in the development process of 3D graphical environments such as games or simulations. 3D GANs are a new type of generative model used for 3D reconstruction, point cloud reconstruction, and 3D semantic scene completion. The choice of distribution for noise is critical as it represents the latent space. Understanding a GAN's latent space is essential for fine-tuning the generated samples, as demonstrated by the morphing of semantically meaningful parts of images. In this work, we explore the latent space and 3D GANs, examine several GAN variants and training methods to gain insights into improving 3D GAN training, and suggest potential future directions for further research.

1192
Evaluate Geometry of Radiance Field with Low-frequency Color Prior
2023-04-10
Radiance field is an effective representation of 3D scenes, which has been widely adopted in novel-view synthesis and 3D reconstruction. It is still an open and challenging problem to evaluate the geometry, i.e., the density field, as the ground-truth is almost impossible to be obtained. One alternative indirect solution is to transform the density field into a point-cloud and compute its Chamfer Distance with the scanned ground-truth. However, many widely-used datasets have no point-cloud ground-truth since the scanning process along with the equipment is expensive and complicated. To this end, we propose a novel metric, named Inverse Mean Residual Color (IMRC), which can evaluate the geometry only with the observation images. Our key insight is that the better the geometry is, the lower-frequency the computed color field is. From this insight, given reconstructed density field and the observation images, we design a closed-form method to approximate the color field with low-frequency spherical harmonics and compute the inverse mean residual color. Then the higher the IMRC, the better the geometry. Qualitative and quantitative experimental results verify the effectiveness of our proposed IMRC metric. We also benchmark several state-of-the-art methods using IMRC to promote future related research.

1193
Estimating 3D Dental Structures using Simulated Panoramic Radiographs and Neural Ray Tracing
2023-04-08
Panoramic radiography (Panoramic X-ray, PX) is a widely used imaging modality for dental examination. Since PX only provides 2D flattened views of the oral structure, its applicability is limited as compared to 3D Cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT). In this paper, we propose a framework to estimate CBCT-like 3D structures from real-world PX. Our framework tackles full 3D reconstruction for varying subjects (patients) where each reconstruction is based only on a single panoramic image. We create an intermediate representation called simulated PX (SimPX) from CBCT data which is based both on the Beer-Lambert law of X-ray rendering and rotational principles of PX imaging. SimPX aims at not only truthfully simulating PX, but also facilitates the reverting process back to 3D data. We propose a novel neural model based on ray tracing which exploits both global and local input features to convert SimPX to 3D output. At inference, a real PX image is translated to a SimPX-style image with semantic regularization, and the translated image is processed by generation/refinement modules to produce high-quality outputs. Experiments show that our method outperforms prior state-of-the-art in reconstruction tasks both quantitatively and qualitatively. Our method does not require any prior information such as the shape of dental arches, nor the matched PX-CBCT dataset for training, which is difficult to obtain in clinical practice.

1194
PVD-AL: Progressive Volume Distillation with Active Learning for Efficient Conversion Between Different NeRF Architectures
2023-04-08
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have been widely adopted as practical and versatile representations for 3D scenes, facilitating various downstream tasks. However, different architectures, including plain Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP), Tensors, low-rank Tensors, Hashtables, and their compositions, have their trade-offs. For instance, Hashtables-based representations allow for faster rendering but lack clear geometric meaning, making spatial-relation-aware editing challenging. To address this limitation and maximize the potential of each architecture, we propose Progressive Volume Distillation with Active Learning (PVD-AL), a systematic distillation method that enables any-to-any conversions between different architectures. PVD-AL decomposes each structure into two parts and progressively performs distillation from shallower to deeper volume representation, leveraging effective information retrieved from the rendering process. Additionally, a Three-Levels of active learning technique provides continuous feedback during the distillation process, resulting in high-performance results. Empirical evidence is presented to validate our method on multiple benchmark datasets. For example, PVD-AL can distill an MLP-based model from a Hashtables-based model at a 10~20X faster speed and 0.8dB~2dB higher PSNR than training the NeRF model from scratch. Moreover, PVD-AL permits the fusion of diverse features among distinct structures, enabling models with multiple editing properties and providing a more efficient model to meet real-time requirements. Project website:http://sk-fun.fun/PVD-AL.

1195
Analysis of Sampling Strategies for Implicit 3D Reconstruction
2023-04-08
In the training process of the implicit 3D reconstruction network, the choice of spatial query points' sampling strategy affects the final performance of the model. Different works have differences in the selection of sampling strategies, not only in the spatial distribution of query points but also in the order of magnitude difference in the density of query points. For how to select the sampling strategy of query points, current works are more akin to an enumerating operation to find the optimal solution, which seriously affects work efficiency. In this work, we explored the relationship between sampling strategy and network final performance through classification analysis and experimental comparison from three aspects: the relationship between network type and sampling strategy, the relationship between implicit function and sampling strategy, and the impact of sampling density on model performance. In addition, we also proposed two methods, linear sampling and distance mask, to improve the sampling strategy of query points, making it more general and robust.

1196
Photometric Correction for Infrared Sensors
2023-04-08
Infrared thermography has been widely used in several domains to capture and measure temperature distributions across surfaces and objects. This methodology can be further expanded to 3D applications if the spatial distribution of the temperature distribution is available. Structure from Motion (SfM) is a photometric range imaging technique that makes it possible to obtain 3D renderings from a cloud of 2D images. To explore the possibility of 3D reconstruction via SfM from infrared images, this article proposes a photometric correction model for infrared sensors based on temperature constancy. Photometric correction is accomplished by estimating the scene irradiance as the values from the solution to a differential equation for microbolometer pixel excitation with unknown coefficients and initial conditions. The model was integrated into an SfM framework and experimental evaluations demonstrate the contribution of the photometric correction for improving the estimates of both the camera motion and the scene structure. Further, experiments show that the reconstruction quality from the corrected infrared imagery achieves performance on par with state-of-the-art reconstruction using RGB sensors.

1197
EvAC3D: From Event-based Apparent Contours to 3D Models via Continuous Visual Hulls
2023-04-11
3D reconstruction from multiple views is a successful computer vision field with multiple deployments in applications. State of the art is based on traditional RGB frames that enable optimization of photo-consistency cross views. In this paper, we study the problem of 3D reconstruction from event-cameras, motivated by the advantages of event-based cameras in terms of low power and latency as well as by the biological evidence that eyes in nature capture the same data and still perceive well 3D shape. The foundation of our hypothesis that 3D reconstruction is feasible using events lies in the information contained in the occluding contours and in the continuous scene acquisition with events. We propose Apparent Contour Events (ACE), a novel event-based representation that defines the geometry of the apparent contour of an object. We represent ACE by a spatially and temporally continuous implicit function defined in the event x-y-t space. Furthermore, we design a novel continuous Voxel Carving algorithm enabled by the high temporal resolution of the Apparent Contour Events. To evaluate the performance of the method, we collect MOEC-3D, a 3D event dataset of a set of common real-world objects. We demonstrate the ability of EvAC3D to reconstruct high-fidelity mesh surfaces from real event sequences while allowing the refinement of the 3D reconstruction for each individual event.

1198
Neural Lens Modeling
2023-04-10
Recent methods for 3D reconstruction and rendering increasingly benefit from end-to-end optimization of the entire image formation process. However, this approach is currently limited: effects of the optical hardware stack and in particular lenses are hard to model in a unified way. This limits the quality that can be achieved for camera calibration and the fidelity of the results of 3D reconstruction. In this paper, we propose NeuroLens, a neural lens model for distortion and vignetting that can be used for point projection and ray casting and can be optimized through both operations. This means that it can (optionally) be used to perform pre-capture calibration using classical calibration targets, and can later be used to perform calibration or refinement during 3D reconstruction, e.g., while optimizing a radiance field. To evaluate the performance of our proposed model, we create a comprehensive dataset assembled from the Lensfun database with a multitude of lenses. Using this and other real-world datasets, we show that the quality of our proposed lens model outperforms standard packages as well as recent approaches while being much easier to use and extend. The model generalizes across many lens types and is trivial to integrate into existing 3D reconstruction and rendering systems.

1199
Single-Stage Diffusion NeRF: A Unified Approach to 3D Generation and Reconstruction
2023-04-13
3D-aware image synthesis encompasses a variety of tasks, such as scene generation and novel view synthesis from images. Despite numerous task-specific methods, developing a comprehensive model remains challenging. In this paper, we present SSDNeRF, a unified approach that employs an expressive diffusion model to learn a generalizable prior of neural radiance fields (NeRF) from multi-view images of diverse objects. Previous studies have used two-stage approaches that rely on pretrained NeRFs as real data to train diffusion models. In contrast, we propose a new single-stage training paradigm with an end-to-end objective that jointly optimizes a NeRF auto-decoder and a latent diffusion model, enabling simultaneous 3D reconstruction and prior learning, even from sparsely available views. At test time, we can directly sample the diffusion prior for unconditional generation, or combine it with arbitrary observations of unseen objects for NeRF reconstruction. SSDNeRF demonstrates robust results comparable to or better than leading task-specific methods in unconditional generation and single/sparse-view 3D reconstruction.

1200
SiLK -- Simple Learned Keypoints
2023-04-12
Keypoint detection & descriptors are foundational tech-nologies for computer vision tasks like image matching, 3D reconstruction and visual odometry. Hand-engineered methods like Harris corners, SIFT, and HOG descriptors have been used for decades; more recently, there has been a trend to introduce learning in an attempt to improve keypoint detectors. On inspection however, the results are difficult to interpret; recent learning-based methods employ a vast diversity of experimental setups and design choices: empirical results are often reported using different backbones, protocols, datasets, types of supervisions or tasks. Since these differences are often coupled together, it raises a natural question on what makes a good learned keypoint detector. In this work, we revisit the design of existing keypoint detectors by deconstructing their methodologies and identifying the key components. We re-design each component from first-principle and propose Simple Learned Keypoints (SiLK) that is fully-differentiable, lightweight, and flexible. Despite its simplicity, SiLK advances new state-of-the-art on Detection Repeatability and Homography Estimation tasks on HPatches and 3D Point-Cloud Registration task on ScanNet, and achieves competitive performance to state-of-the-art on camera pose estimation in 2022 Image Matching Challenge and ScanNet.

1201
Learning How To Robustly Estimate Camera Pose in Endoscopic Videos
2023-04-17
Purpose: Surgical scene understanding plays a critical role in the technology stack of tomorrow's intervention-assisting systems in endoscopic surgeries. For this, tracking the endoscope pose is a key component, but remains challenging due to illumination conditions, deforming tissues and the breathing motion of organs. Method: We propose a solution for stereo endoscopes that estimates depth and optical flow to minimize two geometric losses for camera pose estimation. Most importantly, we introduce two learned adaptive per-pixel weight mappings that balance contributions according to the input image content. To do so, we train a Deep Declarative Network to take advantage of the expressiveness of deep-learning and the robustness of a novel geometric-based optimization approach. We validate our approach on the publicly available SCARED dataset and introduce a new in-vivo dataset, StereoMIS, which includes a wider spectrum of typically observed surgical settings. Results: Our method outperforms state-of-the-art methods on average and more importantly, in difficult scenarios where tissue deformations and breathing motion are visible. We observed that our proposed weight mappings attenuate the contribution of pixels on ambiguous regions of the images, such as deforming tissues. Conclusion: We demonstrate the effectiveness of our solution to robustly estimate the camera pose in challenging endoscopic surgical scenes. Our contributions can be used to improve related tasks like simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) or 3D reconstruction, therefore advancing surgical scene understanding in minimally-invasive surgery.

1202
Temporally Consistent Online Depth Estimation Using Point-Based Fusion
2023-04-15
Depth estimation is an important step in many computer vision problems such as 3D reconstruction, novel view synthesis, and computational photography. Most existing work focuses on depth estimation from single frames. When applied to videos, the result lacks temporal consistency, showing flickering and swimming artifacts. In this paper we aim to estimate temporally consistent depth maps of video streams in an online setting. This is a difficult problem as future frames are not available and the method must choose between enforcing consistency and correcting errors from previous estimations. The presence of dynamic objects further complicates the problem. We propose to address these challenges by using a global point cloud that is dynamically updated each frame, along with a learned fusion approach in image space. Our approach encourages consistency while simultaneously allowing updates to handle errors and dynamic objects. Qualitative and quantitative results show that our method achieves state-of-the-art quality for consistent video depth estimation.

1203
SurfelNeRF: Neural Surfel Radiance Fields for Online Photorealistic Reconstruction of Indoor Scenes
2023-04-18
Online reconstructing and rendering of large-scale indoor scenes is a long-standing challenge. SLAM-based methods can reconstruct 3D scene geometry progressively in real time but can not render photorealistic results. While NeRF-based methods produce promising novel view synthesis results, their long offline optimization time and lack of geometric constraints pose challenges to efficiently handling online input. Inspired by the complementary advantages of classical 3D reconstruction and NeRF, we thus investigate marrying explicit geometric representation with NeRF rendering to achieve efficient online reconstruction and high-quality rendering. We introduce SurfelNeRF, a variant of neural radiance field which employs a flexible and scalable neural surfel representation to store geometric attributes and extracted appearance features from input images. We further extend the conventional surfel-based fusion scheme to progressively integrate incoming input frames into the reconstructed global neural scene representation. In addition, we propose a highly-efficient differentiable rasterization scheme for rendering neural surfel radiance fields, which helps SurfelNeRF achieve $10\times$ speedups in training and inference time, respectively. Experimental results show that our method achieves the state-of-the-art 23.82 PSNR and 29.58 PSNR on ScanNet in feedforward inference and per-scene optimization settings, respectively.

1204
Single-View View Synthesis with Self-Rectified Pseudo-Stereo
2023-04-19
Synthesizing novel views from a single view image is a highly ill-posed problem. We discover an effective solution to reduce the learning ambiguity by expanding the single-view view synthesis problem to a multi-view setting. Specifically, we leverage the reliable and explicit stereo prior to generate a pseudo-stereo viewpoint, which serves as an auxiliary input to construct the 3D space. In this way, the challenging novel view synthesis process is decoupled into two simpler problems of stereo synthesis and 3D reconstruction. In order to synthesize a structurally correct and detail-preserved stereo image, we propose a self-rectified stereo synthesis to amend erroneous regions in an identify-rectify manner. Hard-to-train and incorrect warping samples are first discovered by two strategies, 1) pruning the network to reveal low-confident predictions; and 2) bidirectionally matching between stereo images to allow the discovery of improper mapping. These regions are then inpainted to form the final pseudo-stereo. With the aid of this extra input, a preferable 3D reconstruction can be easily obtained, and our method can work with arbitrary 3D representations. Extensive experiments show that our method outperforms state-of-the-art single-view view synthesis methods and stereo synthesis methods.

1205
3 Dimensional Dense Reconstruction: A Review of Algorithms and Dataset
2023-04-19
3D dense reconstruction refers to the process of obtaining the complete shape and texture features of 3D objects from 2D planar images. 3D reconstruction is an important and extensively studied problem, but it is far from being solved. This work systematically introduces classical methods of 3D dense reconstruction based on geometric and optical models, as well as methods based on deep learning. It also introduces datasets for deep learning and the performance and advantages and disadvantages demonstrated by deep learning methods on these datasets.

1206
LiDAR-NeRF: Novel LiDAR View Synthesis via Neural Radiance Fields
2023-04-20
We introduce a new task, novel view synthesis for LiDAR sensors. While traditional model-based LiDAR simulators with style-transfer neural networks can be applied to render novel views, they fall short of producing accurate and realistic LiDAR patterns because the renderers rely on explicit 3D reconstruction and exploit game engines, that ignore important attributes of LiDAR points. We address this challenge by formulating, to the best of our knowledge, the first differentiable end-to-end LiDAR rendering framework, LiDAR-NeRF, leveraging a neural radiance field (NeRF) to facilitate the joint learning of geometry and the attributes of 3D points. However, simply employing NeRF cannot achieve satisfactory results, as it only focuses on learning individual pixels while ignoring local information, especially at low texture areas, resulting in poor geometry. To this end, we have taken steps to address this issue by introducing a structural regularization method to preserve local structural details. To evaluate the effectiveness of our approach, we establish an object-centric multi-view LiDAR dataset, dubbed NeRF-MVL. It contains observations of objects from 9 categories seen from 360-degree viewpoints captured with multiple LiDAR sensors. Our extensive experiments on the scene-level KITTI-360 dataset, and on our object-level NeRF-MVL show that our LiDAR-NeRF surpasses the model-based algorithms significantly.

1207
A geometry-aware deep network for depth estimation in monocular endoscopy
2023-04-20
Monocular depth estimation is critical for endoscopists to perform spatial perception and 3D navigation of surgical sites. However, most of the existing methods ignore the important geometric structural consistency, which inevitably leads to performance degradation and distortion of 3D reconstruction. To address this issue, we introduce a gradient loss to penalize edge fluctuations ambiguous around stepped edge structures and a normal loss to explicitly express the sensitivity to frequently small structures, and propose a geometric consistency loss to spreads the spatial information across the sample grids to constrain the global geometric anatomy structures. In addition, we develop a synthetic RGB-Depth dataset that captures the anatomical structures under reflections and illumination variations. The proposed method is extensively validated across different datasets and clinical images and achieves mean RMSE values of 0.066 (stomach), 0.029 (small intestine), and 0.139 (colon) on the EndoSLAM dataset. The generalizability of the proposed method achieves mean RMSE values of 12.604 (T1-L1), 9.930 (T2-L2), and 13.893 (T3-L3) on the ColonDepth dataset. The experimental results show that our method exceeds previous state-of-the-art competitors and generates more consistent depth maps and reasonable anatomical structures. The quality of intraoperative 3D structure perception from endoscopic videos of the proposed method meets the accuracy requirements of video-CT registration algorithms for endoscopic navigation. The dataset and the source code will be available at https://github.com/YYM-SIA/LINGMI-MR.

1208
Tetra-NeRF: Representing Neural Radiance Fields Using Tetrahedra
2023-04-19
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) are a very recent and very popular approach for the problems of novel view synthesis and 3D reconstruction. A popular scene representation used by NeRFs is to combine a uniform, voxel-based subdivision of the scene with an MLP. Based on the observation that a (sparse) point cloud of the scene is often available, this paper proposes to use an adaptive representation based on tetrahedra obtained by the Delaunay triangulation instead of the uniform subdivision or point-based representations. We show that such a representation enables efficient training and leads to state-of-the-art results. Our approach elegantly combines concepts from 3D geometry processing, triangle-based rendering, and modern neural radiance fields. Compared to voxel-based representations, ours provides more detail around parts of the scene likely to be close to the surface. Compared to point-based representations, our approach achieves better performance.

1209
Anything-3D: Towards Single-view Anything Reconstruction in the Wild
2023-04-19
3D reconstruction from a single-RGB image in unconstrained real-world scenarios presents numerous challenges due to the inherent diversity and complexity of objects and environments. In this paper, we introduce Anything-3D, a methodical framework that ingeniously combines a series of visual-language models and the Segment-Anything object segmentation model to elevate objects to 3D, yielding a reliable and versatile system for single-view conditioned 3D reconstruction task. Our approach employs a BLIP model to generate textural descriptions, utilizes the Segment-Anything model for the effective extraction of objects of interest, and leverages a text-to-image diffusion model to lift object into a neural radiance field. Demonstrating its ability to produce accurate and detailed 3D reconstructions for a wide array of objects, \emph{Anything-3D\footnotemark[2]} shows promise in addressing the limitations of existing methodologies. Through comprehensive experiments and evaluations on various datasets, we showcase the merits of our approach, underscoring its potential to contribute meaningfully to the field of 3D reconstruction. Demos and code will be available at \href{https://github.com/Anything-of-anything/Anything-3D}{https://github.com/Anything-of-anything/Anything-3D}.

1210
A Comparative Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) 3D Analysis of Camera Poses from HoloLens Trajectories and Structure from Motion
2023-04-20
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) are trained using a set of camera poses and associated images as input to estimate density and color values for each position. The position-dependent density learning is of particular interest for photogrammetry, enabling 3D reconstruction by querying and filtering the NeRF coordinate system based on the object density. While traditional methods like Structure from Motion are commonly used for camera pose calculation in pre-processing for NeRFs, the HoloLens offers an interesting interface for extracting the required input data directly. We present a workflow for high-resolution 3D reconstructions almost directly from HoloLens data using NeRFs. Thereby, different investigations are considered: Internal camera poses from the HoloLens trajectory via a server application, and external camera poses from Structure from Motion, both with an enhanced variant applied through pose refinement. Results show that the internal camera poses lead to NeRF convergence with a PSNR of 25\,dB with a simple rotation around the x-axis and enable a 3D reconstruction. Pose refinement enables comparable quality compared to external camera poses, resulting in improved training process with a PSNR of 27\,dB and a better 3D reconstruction. Overall, NeRF reconstructions outperform the conventional photogrammetric dense reconstruction using Multi-View Stereo in terms of completeness and level of detail.

1211
gSDF: Geometry-Driven Signed Distance Functions for 3D Hand-Object Reconstruction
2023-04-24
Signed distance functions (SDFs) is an attractive framework that has recently shown promising results for 3D shape reconstruction from images. SDFs seamlessly generalize to different shape resolutions and topologies but lack explicit modelling of the underlying 3D geometry. In this work, we exploit the hand structure and use it as guidance for SDF-based shape reconstruction. In particular, we address reconstruction of hands and manipulated objects from monocular RGB images. To this end, we estimate poses of hands and objects and use them to guide 3D reconstruction. More specifically, we predict kinematic chains of pose transformations and align SDFs with highly-articulated hand poses. We improve the visual features of 3D points with geometry alignment and further leverage temporal information to enhance the robustness to occlusion and motion blurs. We conduct extensive experiments on the challenging ObMan and DexYCB benchmarks and demonstrate significant improvements of the proposed method over the state of the art.

1212
Learning Visibility Field for Detailed 3D Human Reconstruction and Relighting
2023-04-24
Detailed 3D reconstruction and photo-realistic relighting of digital humans are essential for various applications. To this end, we propose a novel sparse-view 3d human reconstruction framework that closely incorporates the occupancy field and albedo field with an additional visibility field--it not only resolves occlusion ambiguity in multiview feature aggregation, but can also be used to evaluate light attenuation for self-shadowed relighting. To enhance its training viability and efficiency, we discretize visibility onto a fixed set of sample directions and supply it with coupled geometric 3D depth feature and local 2D image feature. We further propose a novel rendering-inspired loss, namely TransferLoss, to implicitly enforce the alignment between visibility and occupancy field, enabling end-to-end joint training. Results and extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method, as it surpasses state-of-the-art in terms of reconstruction accuracy while achieving comparably accurate relighting to ray-traced ground truth.

1213
NoiseTrans: Point Cloud Denoising with Transformers
2023-04-24
Point clouds obtained from capture devices or 3D reconstruction techniques are often noisy and interfere with downstream tasks. The paper aims to recover the underlying surface of noisy point clouds. We design a novel model, NoiseTrans, which uses transformer encoder architecture for point cloud denoising. Specifically, we obtain structural similarity of point-based point clouds with the assistance of the transformer's core self-attention mechanism. By expressing the noisy point cloud as a set of unordered vectors, we convert point clouds into point embeddings and employ Transformer to generate clean point clouds. To make the Transformer preserve details when sensing the point cloud, we design the Local Point Attention to prevent the point cloud from being over-smooth. In addition, we also propose sparse encoding, which enables the Transformer to better perceive the structural relationships of the point cloud and improve the denoising performance. Experiments show that our model outperforms state-of-the-art methods in various datasets and noise environments.

1214
Shape-Net: Room Layout Estimation from Panoramic Images Robust to Occlusion using Knowledge Distillation with 3D Shapes as Additional Inputs
2023-04-25
Estimating the layout of a room from a single-shot panoramic image is important in virtual/augmented reality and furniture layout simulation. This involves identifying three-dimensional (3D) geometry, such as the location of corners and boundaries, and performing 3D reconstruction. However, occlusion is a common issue that can negatively impact room layout estimation, and this has not been thoroughly studied to date. It is possible to obtain 3D shape information of rooms as drawings of buildings and coordinates of corners from image datasets, thus we propose providing both 2D panoramic and 3D information to a model to effectively deal with occlusion. However, simply feeding 3D information to a model is not sufficient to utilize the shape information for an occluded area. Therefore, we improve the model by introducing 3D Intersection over Union (IoU) loss to effectively use 3D information. In some cases, drawings are not available or the construction deviates from a drawing. Considering such practical cases, we propose a method for distilling knowledge from a model trained with both images and 3D information to a model that takes only images as input. The proposed model, which is called Shape-Net, achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance on benchmark datasets. We also confirmed its effectiveness in dealing with occlusion through significantly improved accuracy on images with occlusion compared with existing models.

1215
Unsupervised Style-based Explicit 3D Face Reconstruction from Single Image
2023-04-24
Inferring 3D object structures from a single image is an ill-posed task due to depth ambiguity and occlusion. Typical resolutions in the literature include leveraging 2D or 3D ground truth for supervised learning, as well as imposing hand-crafted symmetry priors or using an implicit representation to hallucinate novel viewpoints for unsupervised methods. In this work, we propose a general adversarial learning framework for solving Unsupervised 2D to Explicit 3D Style Transfer (UE3DST). Specifically, we merge two architectures: the unsupervised explicit 3D reconstruction network of Wu et al.\ and the Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) named StarGAN-v2. We experiment across three facial datasets (Basel Face Model, 3DFAW and CelebA-HQ) and show that our solution is able to outperform well established solutions such as DepthNet in 3D reconstruction and Pix2NeRF in conditional style transfer, while we also justify the individual contributions of our model components via ablation. In contrast to the aforementioned baselines, our scheme produces features for explicit 3D rendering, which can be manipulated and utilized in downstream tasks.

1216
Learning Articulated Shape with Keypoint Pseudo-labels from Web Images
2023-04-27
This paper shows that it is possible to learn models for monocular 3D reconstruction of articulated objects (e.g., horses, cows, sheep), using as few as 50-150 images labeled with 2D keypoints. Our proposed approach involves training category-specific keypoint estimators, generating 2D keypoint pseudo-labels on unlabeled web images, and using both the labeled and self-labeled sets to train 3D reconstruction models. It is based on two key insights: (1) 2D keypoint estimation networks trained on as few as 50-150 images of a given object category generalize well and generate reliable pseudo-labels; (2) a data selection mechanism can automatically create a "curated" subset of the unlabeled web images that can be used for training -- we evaluate four data selection methods. Coupling these two insights enables us to train models that effectively utilize web images, resulting in improved 3D reconstruction performance for several articulated object categories beyond the fully-supervised baseline. Our approach can quickly bootstrap a model and requires only a few images labeled with 2D keypoints. This requirement can be easily satisfied for any new object category. To showcase the practicality of our approach for predicting the 3D shape of arbitrary object categories, we annotate 2D keypoints on giraffe and bear images from COCO -- the annotation process takes less than 1 minute per image.

1217
Combining HoloLens with Instant-NeRFs: Advanced Real-Time 3D Mobile Mapping
2023-04-27
This work represents a large step into modern ways of fast 3D reconstruction based on RGB camera images. Utilizing a Microsoft HoloLens 2 as a multisensor platform that includes an RGB camera and an inertial measurement unit for SLAM-based camera-pose determination, we train a Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) as a neural scene representation in real-time with the acquired data from the HoloLens. The HoloLens is connected via Wifi to a high-performance PC that is responsible for the training and 3D reconstruction. After the data stream ends, the training is stopped and the 3D reconstruction is initiated, which extracts a point cloud of the scene. With our specialized inference algorithm, five million scene points can be extracted within 1 second. In addition, the point cloud also includes radiometry per point. Our method of 3D reconstruction outperforms grid point sampling with NeRFs by multiple orders of magnitude and can be regarded as a complete real-time 3D reconstruction method in a mobile mapping setup.

1218
Second-order Anisotropic Gaussian Directional Derivative Filters for Blob Detection
2023-04-30
Interest point detection methods have received increasing attention and are widely used in computer vision tasks such as image retrieval and 3D reconstruction. In this work, second-order anisotropic Gaussian directional derivative filters with multiple scales are used to smooth the input image and a novel blob detection method is proposed. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our proposed method over state-of-the-art benchmarks in terms of detection performance and robustness to affine transformations.

1219
NSLF-OL: Online Learning of Neural Surface Light Fields alongside Real-time Incremental 3D Reconstruction
2023-04-29
Immersive novel view generation is an important technology in the field of graphics and has recently also received attention for operator-based human-robot interaction. However, the involved training is time-consuming, and thus the current test scope is majorly on object capturing. This limits the usage of related models in the robotics community for 3D reconstruction since robots (1) usually only capture a very small range of view directions to surfaces that cause arbitrary predictions on unseen, novel direction, (2) requires real-time algorithms, and (3) work with growing scenes, e.g., in robotic exploration. The paper proposes a novel Neural Surface Light Fields model that copes with the small range of view directions while producing a good result in unseen directions. Exploiting recent encoding techniques, the training of our model is highly efficient. In addition, we design Multiple Asynchronous Neural Agents (MANA), a universal framework to learn each small region in parallel for large-scale growing scenes. Our model learns online the Neural Surface Light Fields (NSLF) aside from real-time 3D reconstruction with a sequential data stream as the shared input. In addition to online training, our model also provides real-time rendering after completing the data stream for visualization. We implement experiments using well-known RGBD indoor datasets, showing the high flexibility to embed our model into real-time 3D reconstruction and demonstrating high-fidelity view synthesis for these scenes. The code is available on github.

1220
UHRNet: A Deep Learning-Based Method for Accurate 3D Reconstruction from a Single Fringe-Pattern
2023-04-23
The quick and accurate retrieval of an object height from a single fringe pattern in Fringe Projection Profilometry has been a topic of ongoing research. While a single shot fringe to depth CNN based method can restore height map directly from a single pattern, its accuracy is currently inferior to the traditional phase shifting technique. To improve this method's accuracy, we propose using a U shaped High resolution Network (UHRNet). The network uses UNet encoding and decoding structure as backbone, with Multi-Level convolution Block and High resolution Fusion Block applied to extract local features and global features. We also designed a compound loss function by combining Structural Similarity Index Measure Loss (SSIMLoss) function and chunked L2 loss function to improve 3D reconstruction details.We conducted several experiments to demonstrate the validity and robustness of our proposed method. A few experiments have been conducted to demonstrate the validity and robustness of the proposed method, The average RMSE of 3D reconstruction by our method is only 0.443(mm). which is 41.13% of the UNet method and 33.31% of Wang et al hNet method. Our experimental results show that our proposed method can increase the accuracy of 3D reconstruction from a single fringe pattern.

1221
Non-Linear Phase-Retrieval Algorithms for X-ray Propagation-Based Phase-Contrast Tomography
2023-04-29
X-ray phase-contrast tomography (XPCT) is widely used for high-contrast 3D micron-scale imaging using nearly monochromatic X-rays at synchrotron beamlines. XPCT enables an order of magnitude improvement in image contrast of the reconstructed material interfaces with low X-ray absorption contrast. The dominant approaches to 3D reconstruction using XPCT relies on the use of phase-retrieval algorithms that make one or more limiting approximations for the experimental configuration and material properties. Since many experimental scenarios violate such approximations, the resulting reconstructions contain blur, artifacts, or other quantitative inaccuracies. Our solution to this problem is to formulate new iterative non-linear phase-retrieval (NLPR) algorithms that avoid such limiting approximations. Compared to the widely used state-of-the-art approaches, we show that our proposed algorithms result in sharp and quantitatively accurate reconstruction with reduced artifacts. Unlike existing NLPR algorithms, our approaches avoid the laborious manual tuning of regularization hyper-parameters while still achieving the stated goals. As an alternative to regularization, we propose explicit constraints on the material properties to constrain the solution space and solve the phase-retrieval problem. These constraints are easily user-configurable since they follow directly from the imaged object's dimensions and material properties.

1222
Cortical analysis of heterogeneous clinical brain MRI scans for large-scale neuroimaging studies
2023-05-02
Surface analysis of the cortex is ubiquitous in human neuroimaging with MRI, e.g., for cortical registration, parcellation, or thickness estimation. The convoluted cortical geometry requires isotropic scans (e.g., 1mm MPRAGEs) and good gray-white matter contrast for 3D reconstruction. This precludes the analysis of most brain MRI scans acquired for clinical purposes. Analyzing such scans would enable neuroimaging studies with sample sizes that cannot be achieved with current research datasets, particularly for underrepresented populations and rare diseases. Here we present the first method for cortical reconstruction, registration, parcellation, and thickness estimation for clinical brain MRI scans of any resolution and pulse sequence. The methods has a learning component and a classical optimization module. The former uses domain randomization to train a CNN that predicts an implicit representation of the white matter and pial surfaces (a signed distance function) at 1mm isotropic resolution, independently of the pulse sequence and resolution of the input. The latter uses geometry processing to place the surfaces while accurately satisfying topological and geometric constraints, thus enabling subsequent parcellation and thickness estimation with existing methods. We present results on 5mm axial FLAIR scans from ADNI and on a highly heterogeneous clinical dataset with 5,000 scans. Code and data are publicly available at https://surfer.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu/fswiki/recon-all-clinical

1223
UrbanBIS: a Large-scale Benchmark for Fine-grained Urban Building Instance Segmentation
2023-05-04
We present the UrbanBIS benchmark for large-scale 3D urban understanding, supporting practical urban-level semantic and building-level instance segmentation. UrbanBIS comprises six real urban scenes, with 2.5 billion points, covering a vast area of 10.78 square kilometers and 3,370 buildings, captured by 113,346 views of aerial photogrammetry. Particularly, UrbanBIS provides not only semantic-level annotations on a rich set of urban objects, including buildings, vehicles, vegetation, roads, and bridges, but also instance-level annotations on the buildings. Further, UrbanBIS is the first 3D dataset that introduces fine-grained building sub-categories, considering a wide variety of shapes for different building types. Besides, we propose B-Seg, a building instance segmentation method to establish UrbanBIS. B-Seg adopts an end-to-end framework with a simple yet effective strategy for handling large-scale point clouds. Compared with mainstream methods, B-Seg achieves better accuracy with faster inference speed on UrbanBIS. In addition to the carefully-annotated point clouds, UrbanBIS provides high-resolution aerial-acquisition photos and high-quality large-scale 3D reconstruction models, which shall facilitate a wide range of studies such as multi-view stereo, urban LOD generation, aerial path planning, autonomous navigation, road network extraction, and so on, thus serving as an important platform for many intelligent city applications.

1224
Robot Goes Fishing: Rapid, High-Resolution Biological Hotspot Mapping in Coral Reefs with Vision-Guided Autonomous Underwater Vehicles
2023-05-03
Coral reefs are fast-changing and complex ecosystems that are crucial to monitor and study. Biological hotspot detection can help coral reef managers prioritize limited resources for monitoring and intervention tasks. Here, we explore the use of autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) with cameras, coupled with visual detectors and photogrammetry, to map and identify these hotspots. This approach can provide high spatial resolution information in fast feedback cycles. To the best of our knowledge, we present one of the first attempts at using an AUV to gather visually-observed, fine-grain biological hotspot maps in concert with topography of a coral reefs. Our hotspot maps correlate with rugosity, an established proxy metric for coral reef biodiversity and abundance, as well as with our visual inspections of the 3D reconstruction. We also investigate issues of scaling this approach when applied to new reefs by using these visual detectors pre-trained on large public datasets.

1225
RelPose++: Recovering 6D Poses from Sparse-view Observations
2023-05-08
We address the task of estimating 6D camera poses from sparse-view image sets (2-8 images). This task is a vital pre-processing stage for nearly all contemporary (neural) reconstruction algorithms but remains challenging given sparse views, especially for objects with visual symmetries and texture-less surfaces. We build on the recent RelPose framework which learns a network that infers distributions over relative rotations over image pairs. We extend this approach in two key ways; first, we use attentional transformer layers to process multiple images jointly, since additional views of an object may resolve ambiguous symmetries in any given image pair (such as the handle of a mug that becomes visible in a third view). Second, we augment this network to also report camera translations by defining an appropriate coordinate system that decouples the ambiguity in rotation estimation from translation prediction. Our final system results in large improvements in 6D pose prediction over prior art on both seen and unseen object categories and also enables pose estimation and 3D reconstruction for in-the-wild objects.

1226
3DInvNet: A Deep Learning-Based 3D Ground-Penetrating Radar Data Inversion
2023-05-09
The reconstruction of the 3D permittivity map from ground-penetrating radar (GPR) data is of great importance for mapping subsurface environments and inspecting underground structural integrity. Traditional iterative 3D reconstruction algorithms suffer from strong non-linearity, ill-posedness, and high computational cost. To tackle these issues, a 3D deep learning scheme, called 3DInvNet, is proposed to reconstruct 3D permittivity maps from GPR C-scans. The proposed scheme leverages a prior 3D convolutional neural network with a feature attention mechanism to suppress the noise in the C-scans due to subsurface heterogeneous soil environments. Then a 3D U-shaped encoder-decoder network with multi-scale feature aggregation modules is designed to establish the optimal inverse mapping from the denoised C-scans to 3D permittivity maps. Furthermore, a three-step separate learning strategy is employed to pre-train and fine-tune the networks. The proposed scheme is applied to numerical simulation as well as real measurement data. The quantitative and qualitative results show the network capability, generalizability, and robustness in denoising GPR C-scans and reconstructing 3D permittivity maps of subsurface objects.

1227
Scan2LoD3: Reconstructing semantic 3D building models at LoD3 using ray casting and Bayesian networks
2023-05-10
Reconstructing semantic 3D building models at the level of detail (LoD) 3 is a long-standing challenge. Unlike mesh-based models, they require watertight geometry and object-wise semantics at the fa\c{c}ade level. The principal challenge of such demanding semantic 3D reconstruction is reliable fa\c{c}ade-level semantic segmentation of 3D input data. We present a novel method, called Scan2LoD3, that accurately reconstructs semantic LoD3 building models by improving fa\c{c}ade-level semantic 3D segmentation. To this end, we leverage laser physics and 3D building model priors to probabilistically identify model conflicts. These probabilistic physical conflicts propose locations of model openings: Their final semantics and shapes are inferred in a Bayesian network fusing multimodal probabilistic maps of conflicts, 3D point clouds, and 2D images. To fulfill demanding LoD3 requirements, we use the estimated shapes to cut openings in 3D building priors and fit semantic 3D objects from a library of fa\c{c}ade objects. Extensive experiments on the TUM city campus datasets demonstrate the superior performance of the proposed Scan2LoD3 over the state-of-the-art methods in fa\c{c}ade-level detection, semantic segmentation, and LoD3 building model reconstruction. We believe our method can foster the development of probability-driven semantic 3D reconstruction at LoD3 since not only the high-definition reconstruction but also reconstruction confidence becomes pivotal for various applications such as autonomous driving and urban simulations.

1228
Towards a Better Understanding of the Computer Vision Research Community in Africa
2023-05-11
Computer vision is a broad field of study that encompasses different tasks (e.g., object detection, semantic segmentation, 3D reconstruction). Although computer vision is relevant to the African communities in various applications, yet computer vision research is under-explored in the continent and constructs only 0.06% of top-tier publications in the last 10 years. In this paper, our goal is to have a better understanding of the computer vision research conducted in Africa and provide pointers on whether there is equity in research or not. We do this through an empirical analysis of the African computer vision publications that are Scopus indexed. We first study the opportunities available for African institutions to publish in top-tier computer vision venues. We show that African publishing trends in top-tier venues over the years do not exhibit consistent growth. We also devise a novel way to retrieve African authors through their affiliation history to have a better understanding of their contributions in top-tier venues. Moreover, we study all computer vision publications beyond top-tier venues in different African regions to find that mainly Northern and Southern Africa are publishing in computer vision with more than 85% of African publications. Finally, we present the most recurring keywords in computer vision publications. In summary, our analysis reveals that African researchers are key contributors to African research, yet there exists multiple barriers to publish in top-tier venues and the current trend of topics published in the continent might not necessarily reflect the communities' needs. This work is part of a community based effort that is focused on improving computer vision research in Africa.

1229
AutoRecon: Automated 3D Object Discovery and Reconstruction
2023-05-15
A fully automated object reconstruction pipeline is crucial for digital content creation. While the area of 3D reconstruction has witnessed profound developments, the removal of background to obtain a clean object model still relies on different forms of manual labor, such as bounding box labeling, mask annotations, and mesh manipulations. In this paper, we propose a novel framework named AutoRecon for the automated discovery and reconstruction of an object from multi-view images. We demonstrate that foreground objects can be robustly located and segmented from SfM point clouds by leveraging self-supervised 2D vision transformer features. Then, we reconstruct decomposed neural scene representations with dense supervision provided by the decomposed point clouds, resulting in accurate object reconstruction and segmentation. Experiments on the DTU, BlendedMVS and CO3D-V2 datasets demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of AutoRecon.

1230
RealFusion: 360deg Reconstruction of Any Object From a Single Image
2023-01-01
    We consider the problem of reconstructing a full 360deg photographic model of an object from a single image of it. We do so by fitting a neural radiance field to the image, but find this problem to be severely ill-posed. We thus take an off-the-self conditional image generator based on diffusion and engineer a prompt that encourages it to "dream up" novel views of the object. Using the recent DreamFusion method, we fuse the given input view, the conditional prior, and other regularizers in a final, consistent reconstruction. We demonstrate state-of-the-art reconstruction results on benchmark images when compared to prior methods for monocular 3D reconstruction of objects. Qualitatively, our reconstructions provide a faithful match of the input view and a plausible extrapolation of its appearance and 3D shape, including to the side of the object not visible in the image.    

1231
Neural Kaleidoscopic Space Sculpting
2023-01-01
    We introduce a method that recovers full-surround 3D reconstructions from a single kaleidoscopic image using a neural surface representation. Full-surround 3D reconstruction is critical for many applications, such as augmented and virtual reality. A kaleidoscope, which uses a single camera and multiple mirrors, is a convenient way of achieving full-surround coverage, as it redistributes light directions and thus captures multiple viewpoints in a single image. This enables single-shot and dynamic full-surround 3D reconstruction. However, using a kaleidoscopic image for multi-view stereo is challenging, as we need to decompose the image into multi-view images by identifying which pixel corresponds to which virtual camera, a process we call labeling. To address this challenge, pur approach avoids the need to explicitly estimate labels, but instead "sculpts" a neural surface representation through the careful use of silhouette, background, foreground, and texture information present in the kaleidoscopic image. We demonstrate the advantages of our method in a range of simulated and real experiments, on both static and dynamic scenes.    

1232
Self-Supervised Super-Plane for Neural 3D Reconstruction
2023-01-01
    Neural implicit surface representation methods show impressive reconstruction results but struggle to handle texture-less planar regions that widely exist in indoor scenes. Existing approaches addressing this leverage image prior that requires assistive networks trained with large-scale annotated datasets. In this work, we introduce a self-supervised super-plane constraint by exploring the free geometry cues from the predicted surface, which can further regularize the reconstruction of plane regions without any other ground truth annotations. Specifically, we introduce an iterative training scheme, where (i) grouping of pixels to formulate a super-plane (analogous to super-pixels), and (ii) optimizing of the scene reconstruction network via a super-plane constraint, are progressively conducted. We demonstrate that the model trained with super-planes surprisingly outperforms the one using conventional annotated planes, as individual super-plane statistically occupies a larger area and leads to more stable training. Extensive experiments show that our self-supervised super-plane constraint significantly improves 3D reconstruction quality even better than using ground truth plane segmentation. Additionally, the plane reconstruction results from our model can be used for auto-labeling for other vision tasks. The code and models are available at https: //github.com/botaoye/S3PRecon.    

1233
Neural Fields Meet Explicit Geometric Representations for Inverse Rendering of Urban Scenes
2023-01-01
    Reconstruction and intrinsic decomposition of scenes from captured imagery would enable many applications such as relighting and virtual object insertion. Recent NeRF based methods achieve impressive fidelity of 3D reconstruction, but bake the lighting and shadows into the radiance field, while mesh-based methods that facilitate intrinsic decomposition through differentiable rendering have not yet scaled to the complexity and scale of outdoor scenes. We present a novel inverse rendering framework for large urban scenes capable of jointly reconstructing the scene geometry, spatially-varying materials, and HDR lighting from a set of posed RGB images with optional depth. Specifically, we use a neural field to account for the primary rays, and use an explicit mesh (reconstructed from the underlying neural field) for modeling secondary rays that produce higher-order lighting effects such as cast shadows. By faithfully disentangling complex geometry and materials from lighting effects, our method enables photorealistic relighting with specular and shadow effects on several outdoor datasets. Moreover, it supports physics-based scene manipulations such as virtual object insertion with ray-traced shadow casting.    

1234
LP-DIF: Learning Local Pattern-Specific Deep Implicit Function for 3D Objects and Scenes
2023-01-01
    Deep Implicit Function (DIF) has gained much popularity as an efficient 3D shape representation. To capture geometry details, current mainstream methods divide 3D shapes into local regions and then learn each one with a local latent code via a decoder, where the decoder shares the geometric similarities among different local regions. Although such local methods can capture more local details, a large diversity of different local regions increases the difficulty of learning an implicit function when treating all regions equally using only a single decoder. In addition, these local regions often exhibit imbalanced distributions, where certain regions have significantly fewer observations. This leads that fine geometry details could not be preserved well. To solve this problem, we propose a novel Local Pattern-specific Implicit Function, named LP-DIF, for representing a shape with some clusters of local regions and multiple decoders, where each decoder only focuses on one cluster of local regions which share a certain pattern. Specifically, we first extract local codes for all regions, and then cluster them into multiple groups in the latent space, where similar regions sharing a common pattern fall into one group. After that, we train multiple decoders for mining local patterns of different groups, which simplifies learning of fine geometric details by reducing the diversity of local regions seen by each decoder. To further alleviate the data-imbalance problem, we introduce a region re-weighting module to each pattern-specific decoder by kernel density estimator, which dynamically re-weights the regions during learning. Our LP-DIF can restore more geometry details, and thus improve the quality of 3D reconstruction. Experiments demonstrate that our method can achieve the state-of-the-art performance over previous methods. Code is available at https://github.com/gtyxyz/lpdif.    

1235
PC2: Projection-Conditioned Point Cloud Diffusion for Single-Image 3D Reconstruction
2023-01-01
    Reconstructing the 3D shape of an object from a single RGB image is a long-standing problem in computer vision. In this paper, we propose a novel method for single-image 3D reconstruction which generates a sparse point cloud via a conditional denoising diffusion process. Our method takes as input a single RGB image along with its camera pose and gradually denoises a set of 3D points, whose positions are initially sampled randomly from a three-dimensional Gaussian distribution, into the shape of an object. The key to our method is a geometrically-consistent conditioning process which we call projection conditioning: at each step in the diffusion process, we project local image features onto the partially-denoised point cloud from the given camera pose. This projection conditioning process enables us to generate high-resolution sparse geometries that are well-aligned with the input image and can additionally be used to predict point colors after shape reconstruction. Moreover, due to the probabilistic nature of the diffusion process, our method is naturally capable of generating multiple different shapes consistent with a single input image. In contrast to prior work, our approach not only performs well on synthetic benchmarks but also gives large qualitative improvements on complex real-world data.    

1236
What You Can Reconstruct From a Shadow
2023-01-01
    3D reconstruction is a fundamental problem in computer vision, and the task is especially challenging when the object to reconstruct is partially or fully occluded. We introduce a method that uses the shadows cast by an unobserved object in order to infer the possible 3D volumes under occlusion. We create a differentiable image formation model that allows us to jointly infer the 3D shape of an object, its pose, and the position of a light source. Since the approach is end-to-end differentiable, we are able to integrate learned priors of object geometry in order to generate realistic 3D shapes of different object categories. Experiments and visualizations show that the method is able to generate multiple possible solutions that are consistent with the observation of the shadow. Our approach works even when the position of the light source and object pose are both unknown. Our approach is also robust to real-world images where ground-truth shadow mask is unknown.    

1237
GeoMVSNet: Learning Multi-View Stereo With Geometry Perception
2023-01-01
    Recent cascade Multi-View Stereo (MVS) methods can efficiently estimate high-resolution depth maps through narrowing hypothesis ranges. However, previous methods ignored the vital geometric information embedded in coarse stages, leading to vulnerable cost matching and sub-optimal reconstruction results. In this paper, we propose a geometry awareness model, termed GeoMVSNet, to explicitly integrate geometric clues implied in coarse stages for delicate depth estimation. In particular, we design a two-branch geometry fusion network to extract geometric priors from coarse estimations to enhance structural feature extraction at finer stages. Besides, we embed the coarse probability volumes, which encode valuable depth distribution attributes, into the lightweight regularization network to further strengthen depth-wise geometry intuition. Meanwhile, we apply the frequency domain filtering to mitigate the negative impact of the high-frequency regions and adopt the curriculum learning strategy to progressively boost the geometry integration of the model. To intensify the full-scene geometry perception of our model, we present the depth distribution similarity loss based on the Gaussian-Mixture Model assumption. Extensive experiments on DTU and Tanks and Temples (T&T) datasets demonstrate that our GeoMVSNet achieves state-of-the-art results and ranks first on the T&T-Advanced set. Code is available at https://github.com/doubleZ0108/GeoMVSNet.    

1238
Dionysus: Recovering Scene Structures by Dividing Into Semantic Pieces
2023-01-01
    Most existing 3D reconstruction methods result in either detail loss or unsatisfying efficiency. However, effectiveness and efficiency are equally crucial in real-world applications, e.g., autonomous driving and augmented reality. We argue that this dilemma comes from wasted resources on valueless depth samples. This paper tackles the problem by proposing a novel learning-based 3D reconstruction framework named Dionysus. Our main contribution is to find out the most promising depth candidates from estimated semantic maps. This strategy simultaneously enables high effectiveness and efficiency by attending to the most reliable nominators. Specifically, we distinguish unreliable depth candidates by checking the cross-view semantic consistency and allow adaptive sampling by redistributing depth nominators among pixels. Experiments on the most popular datasets confirm our proposed framework's effectiveness.    

1239
NeMo: Learning 3D Neural Motion Fields From Multiple Video Instances of the Same Action
2023-01-01
    The task of reconstructing 3D human motion has wide-ranging applications. The gold standard Motion capture (MoCap) systems are accurate but inaccessible to the general public due to their cost, hardware, and space constraints. In contrast, monocular human mesh recovery (HMR) methods are much more accessible than MoCap as they take single-view videos as inputs. Replacing the multi-view MoCap systems with a monocular HMR method would break the current barriers to collecting accurate 3D motion thus making exciting applications like motion analysis and motion-driven animation accessible to the general public. However, the performance of existing HMR methods degrades when the video contains challenging and dynamic motion that is not in existing MoCap datasets used for training. This reduces its appeal as dynamic motion is frequently the target in 3D motion recovery in the aforementioned applications. Our study aims to bridge the gap between monocular HMR and multi-view MoCap systems by leveraging information shared across multiple video instances of the same action. We introduce the Neural Motion (NeMo) field. It is optimized to represent the underlying 3D motions across a set of videos of the same action. Empirically, we show that NeMo can recover 3D motion in sports using videos from the Penn Action dataset, where NeMo outperforms existing HMR methods in terms of 2D keypoint detection. To further validate NeMo using 3D metrics, we collected a small MoCap dataset mimicking actions in Penn Action, and show that NeMo achieves better 3D reconstruction compared to various baselines.    

1240
Colonoscopy Coverage Revisited: Identifying Scanning Gaps in Real-Time
2023-05-17
Colonoscopy is the most widely used medical technique for preventing Colorectal Cancer, by detecting and removing polyps before they become malignant. Recent studies show that around one quarter of the existing polyps are routinely missed. While some of these do appear in the endoscopist's field of view, others are missed due to a partial coverage of the colon. The task of detecting and marking unseen regions of the colon has been addressed in recent work, where the common approach is based on dense 3D reconstruction, which proves to be challenging due to lack of 3D ground truth and periods with poor visual content. In this paper we propose a novel and complementary method to detect deficient local coverage in real-time for video segments where a reliable 3D reconstruction is impossible. Our method aims to identify skips along the colon caused by a drifted position of the endoscope during poor visibility time intervals. The proposed solution consists of two phases. During the first, time segments with good visibility of the colon and gaps between them are identified. During the second phase, a trained model operates on each gap, answering the question: Do you observe the same scene before and after the gap? If the answer is negative, the endoscopist is alerted and can be directed to the appropriate area in real-time. The second phase model is trained using a contrastive loss based on auto-generated examples. Our method evaluation on a dataset of 250 procedures annotated by trained physicians provides sensitivity of 0.75 with specificity of 0.9.

1241
Progressive Learning of 3D Reconstruction Network from 2D GAN Data
2023-05-18
This paper presents a method to reconstruct high-quality textured 3D models from single images. Current methods rely on datasets with expensive annotations; multi-view images and their camera parameters. Our method relies on GAN generated multi-view image datasets which have a negligible annotation cost. However, they are not strictly multi-view consistent and sometimes GANs output distorted images. This results in degraded reconstruction qualities. In this work, to overcome these limitations of generated datasets, we have two main contributions which lead us to achieve state-of-the-art results on challenging objects: 1) A robust multi-stage learning scheme that gradually relies more on the models own predictions when calculating losses, 2) A novel adversarial learning pipeline with online pseudo-ground truth generations to achieve fine details. Our work provides a bridge from 2D supervisions of GAN models to 3D reconstruction models and removes the expensive annotation efforts. We show significant improvements over previous methods whether they were trained on GAN generated multi-view images or on real images with expensive annotations. Please visit our web-page for 3D visuals: https://research.nvidia.com/labs/adlr/progressive-3d-learning

1242
ConsistentNeRF: Enhancing Neural Radiance Fields with 3D Consistency for Sparse View Synthesis
2023-05-18
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) has demonstrated remarkable 3D reconstruction capabilities with dense view images. However, its performance significantly deteriorates under sparse view settings. We observe that learning the 3D consistency of pixels among different views is crucial for improving reconstruction quality in such cases. In this paper, we propose ConsistentNeRF, a method that leverages depth information to regularize both multi-view and single-view 3D consistency among pixels. Specifically, ConsistentNeRF employs depth-derived geometry information and a depth-invariant loss to concentrate on pixels that exhibit 3D correspondence and maintain consistent depth relationships. Extensive experiments on recent representative works reveal that our approach can considerably enhance model performance in sparse view conditions, achieving improvements of up to 94% in PSNR, 76% in SSIM, and 31% in LPIPS compared to the vanilla baselines across various benchmarks, including DTU, NeRF Synthetic, and LLFF.

1243
Chupa: Carving 3D Clothed Humans from Skinned Shape Priors using 2D Diffusion Probabilistic Models
2023-05-19
We propose a 3D generation pipeline that uses diffusion models to generate realistic human digital avatars. Due to the wide variety of human identities, poses, and stochastic details, the generation of 3D human meshes has been a challenging problem. To address this, we decompose the problem into 2D normal map generation and normal map-based 3D reconstruction. Specifically, we first simultaneously generate realistic normal maps for the front and backside of a clothed human, dubbed dual normal maps, using a pose-conditional diffusion model. For 3D reconstruction, we ``carve'' the prior SMPL-X mesh to a detailed 3D mesh according to the normal maps through mesh optimization. To further enhance the high-frequency details, we present a diffusion resampling scheme on both body and facial regions, thus encouraging the generation of realistic digital avatars. We also seamlessly incorporate a recent text-to-image diffusion model to support text-based human identity control. Our method, namely, Chupa, is capable of generating realistic 3D clothed humans with better perceptual quality and identity variety.

1244
Text2NeRF: Text-Driven 3D Scene Generation with Neural Radiance Fields
2023-05-19
Text-driven 3D scene generation is widely applicable to video gaming, film industry, and metaverse applications that have a large demand for 3D scenes. However, existing text-to-3D generation methods are limited to producing 3D objects with simple geometries and dreamlike styles that lack realism. In this work, we present Text2NeRF, which is able to generate a wide range of 3D scenes with complicated geometric structures and high-fidelity textures purely from a text prompt. To this end, we adopt NeRF as the 3D representation and leverage a pre-trained text-to-image diffusion model to constrain the 3D reconstruction of the NeRF to reflect the scene description. Specifically, we employ the diffusion model to infer the text-related image as the content prior and use a monocular depth estimation method to offer the geometric prior. Both content and geometric priors are utilized to update the NeRF model. To guarantee textured and geometric consistency between different views, we introduce a progressive scene inpainting and updating strategy for novel view synthesis of the scene. Our method requires no additional training data but only a natural language description of the scene as the input. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our Text2NeRF outperforms existing methods in producing photo-realistic, multi-view consistent, and diverse 3D scenes from a variety of natural language prompts.

1245
RGB-D And Thermal Sensor Fusion: A Systematic Literature Review
2023-05-19
In the last decade, the computer vision field has seen significant progress in multimodal data fusion and learning, where multiple sensors, including depth, infrared, and visual, are used to capture the environment across diverse spectral ranges. Despite these advancements, there has been no systematic and comprehensive evaluation of fusing RGB-D and thermal modalities to date. While autonomous driving using LiDAR, radar, RGB, and other sensors has garnered substantial research interest, along with the fusion of RGB and depth modalities, the integration of thermal cameras and, specifically, the fusion of RGB-D and thermal data, has received comparatively less attention. This might be partly due to the limited number of publicly available datasets for such applications. This paper provides a comprehensive review of both, state-of-the-art and traditional methods used in fusing RGB-D and thermal camera data for various applications, such as site inspection, human tracking, fault detection, and others. The reviewed literature has been categorised into technical areas, such as 3D reconstruction, segmentation, object detection, available datasets, and other related topics. Following a brief introduction and an overview of the methodology, the study delves into calibration and registration techniques, then examines thermal visualisation and 3D reconstruction, before discussing the application of classic feature-based techniques as well as modern deep learning approaches. The paper concludes with a discourse on current limitations and potential future research directions. It is hoped that this survey will serve as a valuable reference for researchers looking to familiarise themselves with the latest advancements and contribute to the RGB-DT research field.

1246
SG-GAN: Fine Stereoscopic-Aware Generation for 3D Brain Point Cloud Up-sampling from a Single Image
2023-05-22
In minimally-invasive brain surgeries with indirect and narrow operating environments, 3D brain reconstruction is crucial. However, as requirements of accuracy for some new minimally-invasive surgeries (such as brain-computer interface surgery) are higher and higher, the outputs of conventional 3D reconstruction, such as point cloud (PC), are facing the challenges that sample points are too sparse and the precision is insufficient. On the other hand, there is a scarcity of high-density point cloud datasets, which makes it challenging to train models for direct reconstruction of high-density brain point clouds. In this work, a novel model named stereoscopic-aware graph generative adversarial network (SG-GAN) with two stages is proposed to generate fine high-density PC conditioned on a single image. The Stage-I GAN sketches the primitive shape and basic structure of the organ based on the given image, yielding Stage-I point clouds. The Stage-II GAN takes the results from Stage-I and generates high-density point clouds with detailed features. The Stage-II GAN is capable of correcting defects and restoring the detailed features of the region of interest (ROI) through the up-sampling process. Furthermore, a parameter-free-attention-based free-transforming module is developed to learn the efficient features of input, while upholding a promising performance. Comparing with the existing methods, the SG-GAN model shows superior performance in terms of visual quality, objective measurements, and performance in classification, as demonstrated by comprehensive results measured by several evaluation metrics including PC-to-PC error and Chamfer distance.

1247
ENRICH: Multi-purposE dataset for beNchmaRking In Computer vision and pHotogrammetry
2023-04-01
The availability of high-resolution data and accurate ground truth is essential to evaluate and compare methods and algorithms properly. Moreover, it is often difficult to acquire real data for a given application domain that is sufficiently representative and heterogeneous in terms of scene representation, acquisition conditions, point of view, etc. To overcome the limitations of available datasets, this paper presents a new synthetic, multi-purpose dataset called ENRICH for testing photogrammetric and computer vision algorithms. Compared to existing datasets, ENRICH offers higher resolution images rendered with different lighting conditions, camera orientations, scales, and fields of view. Specifically, ENRICH is composed of three sub-datasets: ENRICH-Aerial, ENRICH-Square, and ENRICH-Statue, each exhibiting different characteristics. We show the usefulness of the proposed dataset on several examples of photogrammetry and computer vision-related tasks such as: evaluation of hand-crafted and deep learning-based local features, effects of ground control points (GCPs) configuration on the 3D accuracy, and monocular depth estimation.

1248
Cross3DVG: Baseline and Dataset for Cross-Dataset 3D Visual Grounding on Different RGB-D Scans
2023-05-23
We present Cross3DVG, a novel task for cross-dataset visual grounding in 3D scenes, revealing the limitations of existing 3D visual grounding models using restricted 3D resources and thus easily overfit to a specific 3D dataset. To facilitate Cross3DVG, we have created a large-scale 3D visual grounding dataset containing more than 63k diverse descriptions of 3D objects within 1,380 indoor RGB-D scans from 3RScan with human annotations, paired with the existing 52k descriptions on ScanRefer. We perform Cross3DVG by training a model on the source 3D visual grounding dataset and then evaluating it on the target dataset constructed in different ways (e.g., different sensors, 3D reconstruction methods, and language annotators) without using target labels. We conduct comprehensive experiments using established visual grounding models, as well as a CLIP-based 2D-3D integration method, designed to bridge the gaps between 3D datasets. By performing Cross3DVG tasks, we found that (i) cross-dataset 3D visual grounding has significantly lower performance than learning and evaluation with a single dataset, suggesting much room for improvement in cross-dataset generalization of 3D visual grounding, (ii) better detectors and transformer-based localization modules for 3D grounding are beneficial for enhancing 3D grounding performance and (iii) fusing 2D-3D data using CLIP demonstrates further performance improvements. Our Cross3DVG task will provide a benchmark for developing robust 3D visual grounding models capable of handling diverse 3D scenes while leveraging deep language understanding.

1249
Look Ma, No Hands! Agent-Environment Factorization of Egocentric Videos
2023-05-25
The analysis and use of egocentric videos for robotic tasks is made challenging by occlusion due to the hand and the visual mismatch between the human hand and a robot end-effector. In this sense, the human hand presents a nuisance. However, often hands also provide a valuable signal, e.g. the hand pose may suggest what kind of object is being held. In this work, we propose to extract a factored representation of the scene that separates the agent (human hand) and the environment. This alleviates both occlusion and mismatch while preserving the signal, thereby easing the design of models for downstream robotics tasks. At the heart of this factorization is our proposed Video Inpainting via Diffusion Model (VIDM) that leverages both a prior on real-world images (through a large-scale pre-trained diffusion model) and the appearance of the object in earlier frames of the video (through attention). Our experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of VIDM at improving inpainting quality on egocentric videos and the power of our factored representation for numerous tasks: object detection, 3D reconstruction of manipulated objects, and learning of reward functions, policies, and affordances from videos.

1250
Domain-Adaptive Full-Face Gaze Estimation via Novel-View-Synthesis and Feature Disentanglement
2023-05-25
Along with the recent development of deep neural networks, appearance-based gaze estimation has succeeded considerably when training and testing within the same domain. Compared to the within-domain task, the variance of different domains makes the cross-domain performance drop severely, preventing gaze estimation deployment in real-world applications. Among all the factors, ranges of head pose and gaze are believed to play a significant role in the final performance of gaze estimation, while collecting large ranges of data is expensive. This work proposes an effective model training pipeline consisting of a training data synthesis and a gaze estimation model for unsupervised domain adaptation. The proposed data synthesis leverages the single-image 3D reconstruction to expand the range of the head poses from the source domain without requiring a 3D facial shape dataset. To bridge the inevitable gap between synthetic and real images, we further propose an unsupervised domain adaptation method suitable for synthetic full-face data. We propose a disentangling autoencoder network to separate gaze-related features and introduce background augmentation consistency loss to utilize the characteristics of the synthetic source domain. Through comprehensive experiments, we show that the model only using monocular-reconstructed synthetic training data can perform comparably to real data with a large label range. Our proposed domain adaptation approach further improves the performance on multiple target domains. The code and data will be available at \url{https://github.com/ut-vision/AdaptiveGaze}.

1251
Robust Category-Level 3D Pose Estimation from Synthetic Data
2023-05-25
Obtaining accurate 3D object poses is vital for numerous computer vision applications, such as 3D reconstruction and scene understanding. However, annotating real-world objects is time-consuming and challenging. While synthetically generated training data is a viable alternative, the domain shift between real and synthetic data is a significant challenge. In this work, we aim to narrow the performance gap between models trained on synthetic data and few real images and fully supervised models trained on large-scale data. We achieve this by approaching the problem from two perspectives: 1) We introduce SyntheticP3D, a new synthetic dataset for object pose estimation generated from CAD models and enhanced with a novel algorithm. 2) We propose a novel approach (CC3D) for training neural mesh models that perform pose estimation via inverse rendering. In particular, we exploit the spatial relationships between features on the mesh surface and a contrastive learning scheme to guide the domain adaptation process. Combined, these two approaches enable our models to perform competitively with state-of-the-art models using only 10% of the respective real training images, while outperforming the SOTA model by 10.4% with a threshold of pi/18 using only 50% of the real training data. Our trained model further demonstrates robust generalization to out-of-distribution scenarios despite being trained with minimal real data.

1252
T2TD: Text-3D Generation Model based on Prior Knowledge Guidance
2023-05-25
In recent years, 3D models have been utilized in many applications, such as auto-driver, 3D reconstruction, VR, and AR. However, the scarcity of 3D model data does not meet its practical demands. Thus, generating high-quality 3D models efficiently from textual descriptions is a promising but challenging way to solve this problem. In this paper, inspired by the ability of human beings to complement visual information details from ambiguous descriptions based on their own experience, we propose a novel text-3D generation model (T2TD), which introduces the related shapes or textual information as the prior knowledge to improve the performance of the 3D generation model. In this process, we first introduce the text-3D knowledge graph to save the relationship between 3D models and textual semantic information, which can provide the related shapes to guide the target 3D model generation. Second, we integrate an effective causal inference model to select useful feature information from these related shapes, which removes the unrelated shape information and only maintains feature information that is strongly relevant to the textual description. Meanwhile, to effectively integrate multi-modal prior knowledge into textual information, we adopt a novel multi-layer transformer structure to progressively fuse related shape and textual information, which can effectively compensate for the lack of structural information in the text and enhance the final performance of the 3D generation model. The final experimental results demonstrate that our approach significantly improves 3D model generation quality and outperforms the SOTA methods on the text2shape datasets.

1253
VoxDet: Voxel Learning for Novel Instance Detection
2023-05-26
Detecting unseen instances based on multi-view templates is a challenging problem due to its open-world nature. Traditional methodologies, which primarily rely on 2D representations and matching techniques, are often inadequate in handling pose variations and occlusions. To solve this, we introduce VoxDet, a pioneer 3D geometry-aware framework that fully utilizes the strong 3D voxel representation and reliable voxel matching mechanism. VoxDet first ingeniously proposes template voxel aggregation (TVA) module, effectively transforming multi-view 2D images into 3D voxel features. By leveraging associated camera poses, these features are aggregated into a compact 3D template voxel. In novel instance detection, this voxel representation demonstrates heightened resilience to occlusion and pose variations. We also discover that a 3D reconstruction objective helps to pre-train the 2D-3D mapping in TVA. Second, to quickly align with the template voxel, VoxDet incorporates a Query Voxel Matching (QVM) module. The 2D queries are first converted into their voxel representation with the learned 2D-3D mapping. We find that since the 3D voxel representations encode the geometry, we can first estimate the relative rotation and then compare the aligned voxels, leading to improved accuracy and efficiency. Exhaustive experiments are conducted on the demanding LineMod-Occlusion, YCB-video, and the newly built RoboTools benchmarks, where VoxDet outperforms various 2D baselines remarkably with 20% higher recall and faster speed. To the best of our knowledge, VoxDet is the first to incorporate implicit 3D knowledge for 2D detection tasks.

1254
BUOL: A Bottom-Up Framework with Occupancy-aware Lifting for Panoptic 3D Scene Reconstruction From A Single Image
2023-06-01
Understanding and modeling the 3D scene from a single image is a practical problem. A recent advance proposes a panoptic 3D scene reconstruction task that performs both 3D reconstruction and 3D panoptic segmentation from a single image. Although having made substantial progress, recent works only focus on top-down approaches that fill 2D instances into 3D voxels according to estimated depth, which hinders their performance by two ambiguities. (1) instance-channel ambiguity: The variable ids of instances in each scene lead to ambiguity during filling voxel channels with 2D information, confusing the following 3D refinement. (2) voxel-reconstruction ambiguity: 2D-to-3D lifting with estimated single view depth only propagates 2D information onto the surface of 3D regions, leading to ambiguity during the reconstruction of regions behind the frontal view surface. In this paper, we propose BUOL, a Bottom-Up framework with Occupancy-aware Lifting to address the two issues for panoptic 3D scene reconstruction from a single image. For instance-channel ambiguity, a bottom-up framework lifts 2D information to 3D voxels based on deterministic semantic assignments rather than arbitrary instance id assignments. The 3D voxels are then refined and grouped into 3D instances according to the predicted 2D instance centers. For voxel-reconstruction ambiguity, the estimated multi-plane occupancy is leveraged together with depth to fill the whole regions of things and stuff. Our method shows a tremendous performance advantage over state-of-the-art methods on synthetic dataset 3D-Front and real-world dataset Matterport3D. Code and models are available in https://github.com/chtsy/buol.

1255
Image Reconstruction for Accelerated MR Scan with Faster Fourier Convolutional Neural Networks
2023-06-05
Partial scan is a common approach to accelerate Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) data acquisition in both 2D and 3D settings. However, accurately reconstructing images from partial scan data (i.e., incomplete k-space matrices) remains challenging due to lack of an effectively global receptive field in both spatial and k-space domains. To address this problem, we propose the following: (1) a novel convolutional operator called Faster Fourier Convolution (FasterFC) to replace the two consecutive convolution operations typically used in convolutional neural networks (e.g., U-Net, ResNet). Based on the spectral convolution theorem in Fourier theory, FasterFC employs alternating kernels of size 1 in 3D case) in different domains to extend the dual-domain receptive field to the global and achieves faster calculation speed than traditional Fast Fourier Convolution (FFC). (2) A 2D accelerated MRI method, FasterFC-End-to-End-VarNet, which uses FasterFC to improve the sensitivity maps and reconstruction quality. (3) A multi-stage 3D accelerated MRI method called FasterFC-based Single-to-group Network (FAS-Net) that utilizes a single-to-group algorithm to guide k-space domain reconstruction, followed by FasterFC-based cascaded convolutional neural networks to expand the effective receptive field in the dual-domain. Experimental results on the fastMRI and Stanford MRI Data datasets demonstrate that FasterFC improves the quality of both 2D and 3D reconstruction. Moreover, FAS-Net, as a 3D high-resolution multi-coil (eight) accelerated MRI method, achieves superior reconstruction performance in both qualitative and quantitative results compared with state-of-the-art 2D and 3D methods.

1256
Single-Stage 3D Geometry-Preserving Depth Estimation Model Training on Dataset Mixtures with Uncalibrated Stereo Data
2023-06-05
Nowadays, robotics, AR, and 3D modeling applications attract considerable attention to single-view depth estimation (SVDE) as it allows estimating scene geometry from a single RGB image. Recent works have demonstrated that the accuracy of an SVDE method hugely depends on the diversity and volume of the training data. However, RGB-D datasets obtained via depth capturing or 3D reconstruction are typically small, synthetic datasets are not photorealistic enough, and all these datasets lack diversity. The large-scale and diverse data can be sourced from stereo images or stereo videos from the web. Typically being uncalibrated, stereo data provides disparities up to unknown shift (geometrically incomplete data), so stereo-trained SVDE methods cannot recover 3D geometry. It was recently shown that the distorted point clouds obtained with a stereo-trained SVDE method can be corrected with additional point cloud modules (PCM) separately trained on the geometrically complete data. On the contrary, we propose GP$^{2}$, General-Purpose and Geometry-Preserving training scheme, and show that conventional SVDE models can learn correct shifts themselves without any post-processing, benefiting from using stereo data even in the geometry-preserving setting. Through experiments on different dataset mixtures, we prove that GP$^{2}$-trained models outperform methods relying on PCM in both accuracy and speed, and report the state-of-the-art results in the general-purpose geometry-preserving SVDE. Moreover, we show that SVDE models can learn to predict geometrically correct depth even when geometrically complete data comprises the minor part of the training set.

1257
Computational 3D topographic microscopy from terabytes of data per sample
2023-06-05
We present a large-scale computational 3D topographic microscope that enables 6-gigapixel profilometric 3D imaging at micron-scale resolution across $>$110 cm$^2$ areas over multi-millimeter axial ranges. Our computational microscope, termed STARCAM (Scanning Topographic All-in-focus Reconstruction with a Computational Array Microscope), features a parallelized, 54-camera architecture with 3-axis translation to capture, for each sample of interest, a multi-dimensional, 2.1-terabyte (TB) dataset, consisting of a total of 224,640 9.4-megapixel images. We developed a self-supervised neural network-based algorithm for 3D reconstruction and stitching that jointly estimates an all-in-focus photometric composite and 3D height map across the entire field of view, using multi-view stereo information and image sharpness as a focal metric. The memory-efficient, compressed differentiable representation offered by the neural network effectively enables joint participation of the entire multi-TB dataset during the reconstruction process. To demonstrate the broad utility of our new computational microscope, we applied STARCAM to a variety of decimeter-scale objects, with applications ranging from cultural heritage to industrial inspection.

1258
Enhance-NeRF: Multiple Performance Evaluation for Neural Radiance Fields
2023-06-08
The quality of three-dimensional reconstruction is a key factor affecting the effectiveness of its application in areas such as virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) technologies. Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) can generate realistic images from any viewpoint. It simultaneously reconstructs the shape, lighting, and materials of objects, and without surface defects, which breaks down the barrier between virtuality and reality. The potential spatial correspondences displayed by NeRF between reconstructed scenes and real-world scenes offer a wide range of practical applications possibilities. Despite significant progress in 3D reconstruction since NeRF were introduced, there remains considerable room for exploration and experimentation. NeRF-based models are susceptible to interference issues caused by colored "fog" noise. Additionally, they frequently encounter instabilities and failures while attempting to reconstruct unbounded scenes. Moreover, the model takes a significant amount of time to converge, making it even more challenging to use in such scenarios. Our approach, coined Enhance-NeRF, which adopts joint color to balance low and high reflectivity objects display, utilizes a decoding architecture with prior knowledge to improve recognition, and employs multi-layer performance evaluation mechanisms to enhance learning capacity. It achieves reconstruction of outdoor scenes within one hour under single-card condition. Based on experimental results, Enhance-NeRF partially enhances fitness capability and provides some support to outdoor scene reconstruction. The Enhance-NeRF method can be used as a plug-and-play component, making it easy to integrate with other NeRF-based models. The code is available at: https://github.com/TANQIanQ/Enhance-NeRF

1259
2D Supervised Monocular 3D Object Detection by Global-to-Local 3D Reconstruction
2023-06-08
With the advent of the big model era, the demand for data has become more important. Especially in monocular 3D object detection, expensive manual annotations potentially limit further developments. Existing works have investigated weakly supervised algorithms with the help of LiDAR modality to generate 3D pseudo labels, which cannot be applied to ordinary videos. In this paper, we propose a novel paradigm, termed as BA$^2$-Det, leveraging the idea of global-to-local 3D reconstruction for 2D supervised monocular 3D object detection. Specifically, we recover 3D structures from monocular videos by scene-level global reconstruction with global bundle adjustment (BA) and obtain object clusters by the DoubleClustering algorithm. Learning from completely reconstructed objects in global BA, GBA-Learner predicts pseudo labels for occluded objects. Finally, we train an LBA-Learner with object-centric local BA to generalize the generated 3D pseudo labels to moving objects. Experiments on the large-scale Waymo Open Dataset show that the performance of BA$^2$-Det is on par with the fully-supervised BA-Det trained with 10% videos and even outperforms some pioneer fully-supervised methods. We also show the great potential of BA$^2$-Det for detecting open-set 3D objects in complex scenes. The code will be made available. Project page: https://ba2det.site .

1260
BU-CVKit: Extendable Computer Vision Framework for Species Independent Tracking and Analysis
2023-06-07
A major bottleneck of interdisciplinary computer vision (CV) research is the lack of a framework that eases the reuse and abstraction of state-of-the-art CV models by CV and non-CV researchers alike. We present here BU-CVKit, a computer vision framework that allows the creation of research pipelines with chainable Processors. The community can create plugins of their work for the framework, hence improving the re-usability, accessibility, and exposure of their work with minimal overhead. Furthermore, we provide MuSeqPose Kit, a user interface for the pose estimation package of BU-CVKit, which automatically scans for installed plugins and programmatically generates an interface for them based on the metadata provided by the user. It also provides software support for standard pose estimation features such as annotations, 3D reconstruction, reprojection, and camera calibration. Finally, we show examples of behavioral neuroscience pipelines created through the sample plugins created for our framework.

1261
DiViNeT: 3D Reconstruction from Disparate Views via Neural Template Regularization
2023-06-07
We present a volume rendering-based neural surface reconstruction method that takes as few as three disparate RGB images as input. Our key idea is to regularize the reconstruction, which is severely ill-posed and leaving significant gaps between the sparse views, by learning a set of neural templates that act as surface priors. Our method coined DiViNet, operates in two stages. The first stage learns the templates, in the form of 3D Gaussian functions, across different scenes, without 3D supervision. In the reconstruction stage, our predicted templates serve as anchors to help "stitch" the surfaces over sparse regions. We demonstrate that our approach is not only able to complete the surface geometry but also reconstructs surface details to a reasonable extent from few disparate input views. On the DTU and BlendedMVS datasets, our approach achieves the best reconstruction quality among existing methods in the presence of such sparse views, and performs on par, if not better, with competing methods when dense views are employed as inputs.

1262
3D reconstruction using Structure for Motion
2023-06-10
We are working towards 3D reconstruction of indoor spaces using a pair of HDR cameras in a stereo vision configuration mounted on an indoor mobile floor robot that captures various textures and spatial features as 2D images and this data is simultaneously utilized as a feed to our algorithm which will allow us to visualize the depth map.

1263
NERFBK: A High-Quality Benchmark for NERF-Based 3D Reconstruction
2023-06-09
This paper introduces a new real and synthetic dataset called NeRFBK specifically designed for testing and comparing NeRF-based 3D reconstruction algorithms. High-quality 3D reconstruction has significant potential in various fields, and advancements in image-based algorithms make it essential to evaluate new advanced techniques. However, gathering diverse data with precise ground truth is challenging and may not encompass all relevant applications. The NeRFBK dataset addresses this issue by providing multi-scale, indoor and outdoor datasets with high-resolution images and videos and camera parameters for testing and comparing NeRF-based algorithms. This paper presents the design and creation of the NeRFBK benchmark, various examples and application scenarios, and highlights its potential for advancing the field of 3D reconstruction.

1264
CryoChains: Heterogeneous Reconstruction of Molecular Assembly of Semi-flexible Chains from Cryo-EM Images
2023-06-12
Cryogenic electron microscopy (cryo-EM) has transformed structural biology by allowing to reconstruct 3D biomolecular structures up to near-atomic resolution. However, the 3D reconstruction process remains challenging, as the 3D structures may exhibit substantial shape variations, while the 2D image acquisition suffers from a low signal-to-noise ratio, requiring to acquire very large datasets that are time-consuming to process. Current reconstruction methods are precise but computationally expensive, or faster but lack a physically-plausible model of large molecular shape variations. To fill this gap, we propose CryoChains that encodes large deformations of biomolecules via rigid body transformation of their chains, while representing their finer shape variations with the normal mode analysis framework of biophysics. Our synthetic data experiments on the human GABA\textsubscript{B} and heat shock protein show that CryoChains gives a biophysically-grounded quantification of the heterogeneous conformations of biomolecules, while reconstructing their 3D molecular structures at an improved resolution compared to the current fastest, interpretable deep learning method.

1265
Viewset Diffusion: (0-)Image-Conditioned 3D Generative Models from 2D Data
2023-06-13
We present Viewset Diffusion: a framework for training image-conditioned 3D generative models from 2D data. Image-conditioned 3D generative models allow us to address the inherent ambiguity in single-view 3D reconstruction. Given one image of an object, there is often more than one possible 3D volume that matches the input image, because a single image never captures all sides of an object. Deterministic models are inherently limited to producing one possible reconstruction and therefore make mistakes in ambiguous settings. Modelling distributions of 3D shapes is challenging because 3D ground truth data is often not available. We propose to solve the issue of data availability by training a diffusion model which jointly denoises a multi-view image set.We constrain the output of Viewset Diffusion models to a single 3D volume per image set, guaranteeing consistent geometry. Training is done through reconstruction losses on renderings, allowing training with only three images per object. Our design of architecture and training scheme allows our model to perform 3D generation and generative, ambiguity-aware single-view reconstruction in a feed-forward manner. Project page: szymanowiczs.github.io/viewset-diffusion.

1266
SMART: Spatial Modeling Algorithms for Reaction and Transport
2023-06-12
Recent advances in microscopy and 3D reconstruction methods have allowed for characterization of cellular morphology in unprecedented detail, including the irregular geometries of intracellular subcompartments such as membrane-bound organelles. These geometries are now compatible with predictive modeling of cellular function. Biological cells respond to stimuli through sequences of chemical reactions generally referred to as cell signaling pathways. The propagation and reaction of chemical substances in cell signaling pathways can be represented by coupled nonlinear systems of reaction-transport equations. These reaction pathways include numerous chemical species that react across boundaries or interfaces (e.g., the cell membrane and membranes of organelles within the cell) and domains (e.g., the bulk cell volume and the interior of organelles). Such systems of multi-dimensional partial differential equations (PDEs) are notoriously difficult to solve because of their high dimensionality, non-linearities, strong coupling, stiffness, and potential instabilities. In this work, we describe Spatial Modeling Algorithms for Reactions and Transport (SMART), a high-performance finite-element-based simulation package for model specification and numerical simulation of spatially-varying reaction-transport processes. SMART is based on the FEniCS finite element library, provides a symbolic representation framework for specifying reaction pathways, and supports geometries in 2D and 3D including large and irregular cell geometries obtained from modern ultrastructural characterization methods.

1267
Infinite Photorealistic Worlds using Procedural Generation
2023-06-15
We introduce Infinigen, a procedural generator of photorealistic 3D scenes of the natural world. Infinigen is entirely procedural: every asset, from shape to texture, is generated from scratch via randomized mathematical rules, using no external source and allowing infinite variation and composition. Infinigen offers broad coverage of objects and scenes in the natural world including plants, animals, terrains, and natural phenomena such as fire, cloud, rain, and snow. Infinigen can be used to generate unlimited, diverse training data for a wide range of computer vision tasks including object detection, semantic segmentation, optical flow, and 3D reconstruction. We expect Infinigen to be a useful resource for computer vision research and beyond. Please visit https://infinigen.org for videos, code and pre-generated data.

1268
NAVI: Category-Agnostic Image Collections with High-Quality 3D Shape and Pose Annotations
2023-06-15
Recent advances in neural reconstruction enable high-quality 3D object reconstruction from casually captured image collections. Current techniques mostly analyze their progress on relatively simple image collections where Structure-from-Motion (SfM) techniques can provide ground-truth (GT) camera poses. We note that SfM techniques tend to fail on in-the-wild image collections such as image search results with varying backgrounds and illuminations. To enable systematic research progress on 3D reconstruction from casual image captures, we propose NAVI: a new dataset of category-agnostic image collections of objects with high-quality 3D scans along with per-image 2D-3D alignments providing near-perfect GT camera parameters. These 2D-3D alignments allow us to extract accurate derivative annotations such as dense pixel correspondences, depth and segmentation maps. We demonstrate the use of NAVI image collections on different problem settings and show that NAVI enables more thorough evaluations that were not possible with existing datasets. We believe NAVI is beneficial for systematic research progress on 3D reconstruction and correspondence estimation. Project page: https://navidataset.github.io

1269
Enhancing Neural Rendering Methods with Image Augmentations
2023-06-15
Faithfully reconstructing 3D geometry and generating novel views of scenes are critical tasks in 3D computer vision. Despite the widespread use of image augmentations across computer vision applications, their potential remains underexplored when learning neural rendering methods (NRMs) for 3D scenes. This paper presents a comprehensive analysis of the use of image augmentations in NRMs, where we explore different augmentation strategies. We found that introducing image augmentations during training presents challenges such as geometric and photometric inconsistencies for learning NRMs from images. Specifically, geometric inconsistencies arise from alterations in shapes, positions, and orientations from the augmentations, disrupting spatial cues necessary for accurate 3D reconstruction. On the other hand, photometric inconsistencies arise from changes in pixel intensities introduced by the augmentations, affecting the ability to capture the underlying 3D structures of the scene. We alleviate these issues by focusing on color manipulations and introducing learnable appearance embeddings that allow NRMs to explain away photometric variations. Our experiments demonstrate the benefits of incorporating augmentations when learning NRMs, including improved photometric quality and surface reconstruction, as well as enhanced robustness against data quality issues, such as reduced training data and image degradations.

1270
Learning to Predict Scene-Level Implicit 3D from Posed RGBD Data
2023-06-14
We introduce a method that can learn to predict scene-level implicit functions for 3D reconstruction from posed RGBD data. At test time, our system maps a previously unseen RGB image to a 3D reconstruction of a scene via implicit functions. While implicit functions for 3D reconstruction have often been tied to meshes, we show that we can train one using only a set of posed RGBD images. This setting may help 3D reconstruction unlock the sea of accelerometer+RGBD data that is coming with new phones. Our system, D2-DRDF, can match and sometimes outperform current methods that use mesh supervision and shows better robustness to sparse data.

1271
Conceptual Study and Performance Analysis of Tandem Dual-Antenna Spaceborne SAR Interferometry
2023-06-17
Multi-baseline synthetic aperture radar interferometry (MB-InSAR), capable of mapping 3D surface model with high precision, is able to overcome the ill-posed problem in the single-baseline InSAR by use of the baseline diversity. Single pass MB acquisition with the advantages of high coherence and simple phase components has a more practical capability in 3D reconstruction than conventional repeat-pass MB acquisition. Using an asymptotic 3D phase unwrapping (PU), it is possible to get a reliable 3D reconstruction using very sparse acquisitions but the interferograms should follow the optimal baseline design. However, current spaceborne SAR system doesn't satisfy this principle, inducing more difficulties in practical application. In this article, a new concept of Tandem Dual-Antenna SAR Interferometry (TDA-InSAR) system for single-pass reliable 3D surface mapping using the asymptotic 3D PU is proposed. Its optimal MB acquisition is analyzed to achieve both good relative height precision and flexible baseline design. Two indicators, i.e., expected relative height precision and successful phase unwrapping rate, are selected to optimize the system parameters and evaluate the performance of various baseline configurations. Additionally, simulation-based demonstrations are conducted to evaluate the performance in typical scenarios and investigate the impact of various error sources. The results indicate that the proposed TDA-InSAR is able to get the specified MB acquisition for the asymptotic 3D PU, which offers a feasible solution for single-pass 3D SAR imaging.

1272
3D Reconstruction of Spherical Images based on Incremental Structure from Motion
2023-06-22
3D reconstruction plays an increasingly important role in modern photogrammetric systems. Conventional satellite or aerial-based remote sensing (RS) platforms can provide the necessary data sources for the 3D reconstruction of large-scale landforms and cities. Even with low-altitude UAVs (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles), 3D reconstruction in complicated situations, such as urban canyons and indoor scenes, is challenging due to the frequent tracking failures between camera frames and high data collection costs. Recently, spherical images have been extensively exploited due to the capability of recording surrounding environments from one camera exposure. Classical 3D reconstruction pipelines, however, cannot be used for spherical images. Besides, there exist few software packages for 3D reconstruction of spherical images. Based on the imaging geometry of spherical cameras, this study investigates the algorithms for the relative orientation using spherical correspondences, absolute orientation using 3D correspondences between scene and spherical points, and the cost functions for BA (bundle adjustment) optimization. In addition, an incremental SfM (Structure from Motion) workflow has been proposed for spherical images using the above-mentioned algorithms. The proposed solution is finally verified by using three spherical datasets captured by both consumer-grade and professional spherical cameras. The results demonstrate that the proposed SfM workflow can achieve the successful 3D reconstruction of complex scenes and provide useful clues for the implementation in open-source software packages. The source code of the designed SfM workflow would be made publicly available.

1273
LightGlue: Local Feature Matching at Light Speed
2023-06-23
We introduce LightGlue, a deep neural network that learns to match local features across images. We revisit multiple design decisions of SuperGlue, the state of the art in sparse matching, and derive simple but effective improvements. Cumulatively, they make LightGlue more efficient - in terms of both memory and computation, more accurate, and much easier to train. One key property is that LightGlue is adaptive to the difficulty of the problem: the inference is much faster on image pairs that are intuitively easy to match, for example because of a larger visual overlap or limited appearance change. This opens up exciting prospects for deploying deep matchers in latency-sensitive applications like 3D reconstruction. The code and trained models are publicly available at https://github.com/cvg/LightGlue.

1274
One-2-3-45: Any Single Image to 3D Mesh in 45 Seconds without Per-Shape Optimization
2023-06-29
Single image 3D reconstruction is an important but challenging task that requires extensive knowledge of our natural world. Many existing methods solve this problem by optimizing a neural radiance field under the guidance of 2D diffusion models but suffer from lengthy optimization time, 3D inconsistency results, and poor geometry. In this work, we propose a novel method that takes a single image of any object as input and generates a full 360-degree 3D textured mesh in a single feed-forward pass. Given a single image, we first use a view-conditioned 2D diffusion model, Zero123, to generate multi-view images for the input view, and then aim to lift them up to 3D space. Since traditional reconstruction methods struggle with inconsistent multi-view predictions, we build our 3D reconstruction module upon an SDF-based generalizable neural surface reconstruction method and propose several critical training strategies to enable the reconstruction of 360-degree meshes. Without costly optimizations, our method reconstructs 3D shapes in significantly less time than existing methods. Moreover, our method favors better geometry, generates more 3D consistent results, and adheres more closely to the input image. We evaluate our approach on both synthetic data and in-the-wild images and demonstrate its superiority in terms of both mesh quality and runtime. In addition, our approach can seamlessly support the text-to-3D task by integrating with off-the-shelf text-to-image diffusion models.

1275
RGB-D Mapping and Tracking in a Plenoxel Radiance Field
2023-07-07
Building on the success of Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs), recent years have seen significant advances in the domain of novel view synthesis. These models capture the scene's volumetric radiance field, creating highly convincing dense photorealistic models through the use of simple, differentiable rendering equations. Despite their popularity, these algorithms suffer from severe ambiguities in visual data inherent to the RGB sensor, which means that although images generated with view synthesis can visually appear very believable, the underlying 3D model will often be wrong. This considerably limits the usefulness of these models in practical applications like Robotics and Extended Reality (XR), where an accurate dense 3D reconstruction otherwise would be of significant value. In this technical report, we present the vital differences between view synthesis models and 3D reconstruction models. We also comment on why a depth sensor is essential for modeling accurate geometry in general outward-facing scenes using the current paradigm of novel view synthesis methods. Focusing on the structure-from-motion task, we practically demonstrate this need by extending the Plenoxel radiance field model: Presenting an analytical differential approach for dense mapping and tracking with radiance fields based on RGB-D data without a neural network. Our method achieves state-of-the-art results in both the mapping and tracking tasks while also being faster than competing neural network-based approaches.

1276
Depth Estimation Analysis of Orthogonally Divergent Fisheye Cameras with Distortion Removal
2023-07-07
Stereo vision systems have become popular in computer vision applications, such as 3D reconstruction, object tracking, and autonomous navigation. However, traditional stereo vision systems that use rectilinear lenses may not be suitable for certain scenarios due to their limited field of view. This has led to the popularity of vision systems based on one or multiple fisheye cameras in different orientations, which can provide a field of view of 180x180 degrees or more. However, fisheye cameras introduce significant distortion at the edges that affects the accuracy of stereo matching and depth estimation. To overcome these limitations, this paper proposes a method for distortion-removal and depth estimation analysis for stereovision system using orthogonally divergent fisheye cameras (ODFC). The proposed method uses two virtual pinhole cameras (VPC), each VPC captures a small portion of the original view and presents it without any lens distortions, emulating the behavior of a pinhole camera. By carefully selecting the captured regions, it is possible to create a stereo pair using two VPCs. The performance of the proposed method is evaluated in both simulation using virtual environment and experiments using real cameras and their results compared to stereo cameras with parallel optical axes. The results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method in terms of distortion removal and depth estimation accuracy.

1277
3D detection of roof sections from a single satellite image and application to LOD2-building reconstruction
2023-07-11
Reconstructing urban areas in 3D out of satellite raster images has been a long-standing and challenging goal of both academical and industrial research. The rare methods today achieving this objective at a Level Of Details $2$ rely on procedural approaches based on geometry, and need stereo images and/or LIDAR data as input. We here propose a method for urban 3D reconstruction named KIBS(\textit{Keypoints Inference By Segmentation}), which comprises two novel features: i) a full deep learning approach for the 3D detection of the roof sections, and ii) only one single (non-orthogonal) satellite raster image as model input. This is achieved in two steps: i) by a Mask R-CNN model performing a 2D segmentation of the buildings' roof sections, and after blending these latter segmented pixels within the RGB satellite raster image, ii) by another identical Mask R-CNN model inferring the heights-to-ground of the roof sections' corners via panoptic segmentation, unto full 3D reconstruction of the buildings and city. We demonstrate the potential of the KIBS method by reconstructing different urban areas in a few minutes, with a Jaccard index for the 2D segmentation of individual roof sections of $88.55\%$ and $75.21\%$ on our two data sets resp., and a height's mean error of such correctly segmented pixels for the 3D reconstruction of $1.60$ m and $2.06$ m on our two data sets resp., hence within the LOD2 precision range.

1278
Bag of Views: An Appearance-based Approach to Next-Best-View Planning for 3D Reconstruction
2023-07-11
UAV-based intelligent data acquisition for 3D reconstruction and monitoring of infrastructure has been experiencing an increasing surge of interest due to the recent advancements in image processing and deep learning-based techniques. View planning is an essential part of this task that dictates the information capture strategy and heavily impacts the quality of the 3D model generated from the captured data. Recent methods have used prior knowledge or partial reconstruction of the target to accomplish view planning for active reconstruction; the former approach poses a challenge for complex or newly identified targets while the latter is computationally expensive. In this work, we present Bag-of-Views (BoV), a fully appearance-based model used to assign utility to the captured views for both offline dataset refinement and online next-best-view (NBV) planning applications targeting the task of 3D reconstruction. With this contribution, we also developed the View Planning Toolbox (VPT), a lightweight package for training and testing machine learning-based view planning frameworks, custom view dataset generation of arbitrary 3D scenes, and 3D reconstruction. Through experiments which pair a BoV-based reinforcement learning model with VPT, we demonstrate the efficacy of our model in reducing the number of required views for high-quality reconstructions in dataset refinement and NBV planning.

1279
Sequential Experimental Design for X-Ray CT Using Deep Reinforcement Learning
2023-07-12
In X-ray Computed Tomography (CT), projections from many angles are acquired and used for 3D reconstruction. To make CT suitable for in-line quality control, reducing the number of angles while maintaining reconstruction quality is necessary. Sparse-angle tomography is a popular approach for obtaining 3D reconstructions from limited data. To optimize its performance, one can adapt scan angles sequentially to select the most informative angles for each scanned object. Mathematically, this corresponds to solving and optimal experimental design (OED) problem. OED problems are high-dimensional, non-convex, bi-level optimization problems that cannot be solved online, i.e., during the scan. To address these challenges, we pose the OED problem as a partially observable Markov decision process in a Bayesian framework, and solve it through deep reinforcement learning. The approach learns efficient non-greedy policies to solve a given class of OED problems through extensive offline training rather than solving a given OED problem directly via numerical optimization. As such, the trained policy can successfully find the most informative scan angles online. We use a policy training method based on the Actor-Critic approach and evaluate its performance on 2D tomography with synthetic data.

1280
Multi-class point cloud completion networks for 3D cardiac anatomy reconstruction from cine magnetic resonance images
2023-07-17
Cine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the current gold standard for the assessment of cardiac anatomy and function. However, it typically only acquires a set of two-dimensional (2D) slices of the underlying three-dimensional (3D) anatomy of the heart, thus limiting the understanding and analysis of both healthy and pathological cardiac morphology and physiology. In this paper, we propose a novel fully automatic surface reconstruction pipeline capable of reconstructing multi-class 3D cardiac anatomy meshes from raw cine MRI acquisitions. Its key component is a multi-class point cloud completion network (PCCN) capable of correcting both the sparsity and misalignment issues of the 3D reconstruction task in a unified model. We first evaluate the PCCN on a large synthetic dataset of biventricular anatomies and observe Chamfer distances between reconstructed and gold standard anatomies below or similar to the underlying image resolution for multiple levels of slice misalignment. Furthermore, we find a reduction in reconstruction error compared to a benchmark 3D U-Net by 32% and 24% in terms of Hausdorff distance and mean surface distance, respectively. We then apply the PCCN as part of our automated reconstruction pipeline to 1000 subjects from the UK Biobank study in a cross-domain transfer setting and demonstrate its ability to reconstruct accurate and topologically plausible biventricular heart meshes with clinical metrics comparable to the previous literature. Finally, we investigate the robustness of our proposed approach and observe its capacity to successfully handle multiple common outlier conditions.

1281
NU-MCC: Multiview Compressive Coding with Neighborhood Decoder and Repulsive UDF
2023-07-18
Remarkable progress has been made in 3D reconstruction from single-view RGB-D inputs. MCC is the current state-of-the-art method in this field, which achieves unprecedented success by combining vision Transformers with large-scale training. However, we identified two key limitations of MCC: 1) The Transformer decoder is inefficient in handling large number of query points; 2) The 3D representation struggles to recover high-fidelity details. In this paper, we propose a new approach called NU-MCC that addresses these limitations. NU-MCC includes two key innovations: a Neighborhood decoder and a Repulsive Unsigned Distance Function (Repulsive UDF). First, our Neighborhood decoder introduces center points as an efficient proxy of input visual features, allowing each query point to only attend to a small neighborhood. This design not only results in much faster inference speed but also enables the exploitation of finer-scale visual features for improved recovery of 3D textures. Second, our Repulsive UDF is a novel alternative to the occupancy field used in MCC, significantly improving the quality of 3D object reconstruction. Compared to standard UDFs that suffer from holes in results, our proposed Repulsive UDF can achieve more complete surface reconstruction. Experimental results demonstrate that NU-MCC is able to learn a strong 3D representation, significantly advancing the state of the art in single-view 3D reconstruction. Particularly, it outperforms MCC by 9.7% in terms of the F1-score on the CO3D-v2 dataset with more than 5x faster running speed.

1282
Enforcing Topological Interaction between Implicit Surfaces via Uniform Sampling
2023-07-16
Objects interact with each other in various ways, including containment, contact, or maintaining fixed distances. Ensuring these topological interactions is crucial for accurate modeling in many scenarios. In this paper, we propose a novel method to refine 3D object representations, ensuring that their surfaces adhere to a topological prior. Our key observation is that the object interaction can be observed via a stochastic approximation method: the statistic of signed distances between a large number of random points to the object surfaces reflect the interaction between them. Thus, the object interaction can be indirectly manipulated by using choosing a set of points as anchors to refine the object surfaces. In particular, we show that our method can be used to enforce two objects to have a specific contact ratio while having no surface intersection. The conducted experiments show that our proposed method enables accurate 3D reconstruction of human hearts, ensuring proper topological connectivity between components. Further, we show that our proposed method can be used to simulate various ways a hand can interact with an arbitrary object.

1283
Transient Neural Radiance Fields for Lidar View Synthesis and 3D Reconstruction
2023-07-14
Neural radiance fields (NeRFs) have become a ubiquitous tool for modeling scene appearance and geometry from multiview imagery. Recent work has also begun to explore how to use additional supervision from lidar or depth sensor measurements in the NeRF framework. However, previous lidar-supervised NeRFs focus on rendering conventional camera imagery and use lidar-derived point cloud data as auxiliary supervision; thus, they fail to incorporate the underlying image formation model of the lidar. Here, we propose a novel method for rendering transient NeRFs that take as input the raw, time-resolved photon count histograms measured by a single-photon lidar system, and we seek to render such histograms from novel views. Different from conventional NeRFs, the approach relies on a time-resolved version of the volume rendering equation to render the lidar measurements and capture transient light transport phenomena at picosecond timescales. We evaluate our method on a first-of-its-kind dataset of simulated and captured transient multiview scans from a prototype single-photon lidar. Overall, our work brings NeRFs to a new dimension of imaging at transient timescales, newly enabling rendering of transient imagery from novel views. Additionally, we show that our approach recovers improved geometry and conventional appearance compared to point cloud-based supervision when training on few input viewpoints. Transient NeRFs may be especially useful for applications which seek to simulate raw lidar measurements for downstream tasks in autonomous driving, robotics, and remote sensing.

1284
SimCol3D -- 3D Reconstruction during Colonoscopy Challenge
2023-07-20
Colorectal cancer is one of the most common cancers in the world. While colonoscopy is an effective screening technique, navigating an endoscope through the colon to detect polyps is challenging. A 3D map of the observed surfaces could enhance the identification of unscreened colon tissue and serve as a training platform. However, reconstructing the colon from video footage remains unsolved due to numerous factors such as self-occlusion, reflective surfaces, lack of texture, and tissue deformation that limit feature-based methods. Learning-based approaches hold promise as robust alternatives, but necessitate extensive datasets. By establishing a benchmark, the 2022 EndoVis sub-challenge SimCol3D aimed to facilitate data-driven depth and pose prediction during colonoscopy. The challenge was hosted as part of MICCAI 2022 in Singapore. Six teams from around the world and representatives from academia and industry participated in the three sub-challenges: synthetic depth prediction, synthetic pose prediction, and real pose prediction. This paper describes the challenge, the submitted methods, and their results. We show that depth prediction in virtual colonoscopy is robustly solvable, while pose estimation remains an open research question.

1285
LIST: Learning Implicitly from Spatial Transformers for Single-View 3D Reconstruction
2023-07-23
Accurate reconstruction of both the geometric and topological details of a 3D object from a single 2D image embodies a fundamental challenge in computer vision. Existing explicit/implicit solutions to this problem struggle to recover self-occluded geometry and/or faithfully reconstruct topological shape structures. To resolve this dilemma, we introduce LIST, a novel neural architecture that leverages local and global image features to accurately reconstruct the geometric and topological structure of a 3D object from a single image. We utilize global 2D features to predict a coarse shape of the target object and then use it as a base for higher-resolution reconstruction. By leveraging both local 2D features from the image and 3D features from the coarse prediction, we can predict the signed distance between an arbitrary point and the target surface via an implicit predictor with great accuracy. Furthermore, our model does not require camera estimation or pixel alignment. It provides an uninfluenced reconstruction from the input-view direction. Through qualitative and quantitative analysis, we show the superiority of our model in reconstructing 3D objects from both synthetic and real-world images against the state of the art.

1286
Replay: Multi-modal Multi-view Acted Videos for Casual Holography
2023-07-22
We introduce Replay, a collection of multi-view, multi-modal videos of humans interacting socially. Each scene is filmed in high production quality, from different viewpoints with several static cameras, as well as wearable action cameras, and recorded with a large array of microphones at different positions in the room. Overall, the dataset contains over 4000 minutes of footage and over 7 million timestamped high-resolution frames annotated with camera poses and partially with foreground masks. The Replay dataset has many potential applications, such as novel-view synthesis, 3D reconstruction, novel-view acoustic synthesis, human body and face analysis, and training generative models. We provide a benchmark for training and evaluating novel-view synthesis, with two scenarios of different difficulty. Finally, we evaluate several baseline state-of-the-art methods on the new benchmark.

1287
Creative Birds: Self-Supervised Single-View 3D Style Transfer
2023-07-26
In this paper, we propose a novel method for single-view 3D style transfer that generates a unique 3D object with both shape and texture transfer. Our focus lies primarily on birds, a popular subject in 3D reconstruction, for which no existing single-view 3D transfer methods have been developed.The method we propose seeks to generate a 3D mesh shape and texture of a bird from two single-view images. To achieve this, we introduce a novel shape transfer generator that comprises a dual residual gated network (DRGNet), and a multi-layer perceptron (MLP). DRGNet extracts the features of source and target images using a shared coordinate gate unit, while the MLP generates spatial coordinates for building a 3D mesh. We also introduce a semantic UV texture transfer module that implements textural style transfer using semantic UV segmentation, which ensures consistency in the semantic meaning of the transferred regions. This module can be widely adapted to many existing approaches. Finally, our method constructs a novel 3D bird using a differentiable renderer. Experimental results on the CUB dataset verify that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on the single-view 3D style transfer task. Code is available in https://github.com/wrk226/creative_birds.

1288
FS-Depth: Focal-and-Scale Depth Estimation from a Single Image in Unseen Indoor Scene
2023-07-27
It has long been an ill-posed problem to predict absolute depth maps from single images in real (unseen) indoor scenes. We observe that it is essentially due to not only the scale-ambiguous problem but also the focal-ambiguous problem that decreases the generalization ability of monocular depth estimation. That is, images may be captured by cameras of different focal lengths in scenes of different scales. In this paper, we develop a focal-and-scale depth estimation model to well learn absolute depth maps from single images in unseen indoor scenes. First, a relative depth estimation network is adopted to learn relative depths from single images with diverse scales/semantics. Second, multi-scale features are generated by mapping a single focal length value to focal length features and concatenating them with intermediate features of different scales in relative depth estimation. Finally, relative depths and multi-scale features are jointly fed into an absolute depth estimation network. In addition, a new pipeline is developed to augment the diversity of focal lengths of public datasets, which are often captured with cameras of the same or similar focal lengths. Our model is trained on augmented NYUDv2 and tested on three unseen datasets. Our model considerably improves the generalization ability of depth estimation by 41%/13% (RMSE) with/without data augmentation compared with five recent SOTAs and well alleviates the deformation problem in 3D reconstruction. Notably, our model well maintains the accuracy of depth estimation on original NYUDv2.

1289
Physically Plausible 3D Human-Scene Reconstruction from Monocular RGB Image using an Adversarial Learning Approach
2023-07-27
Holistic 3D human-scene reconstruction is a crucial and emerging research area in robot perception. A key challenge in holistic 3D human-scene reconstruction is to generate a physically plausible 3D scene from a single monocular RGB image. The existing research mainly proposes optimization-based approaches for reconstructing the scene from a sequence of RGB frames with explicitly defined physical laws and constraints between different scene elements (humans and objects). However, it is hard to explicitly define and model every physical law in every scenario. This paper proposes using an implicit feature representation of the scene elements to distinguish a physically plausible alignment of humans and objects from an implausible one. We propose using a graph-based holistic representation with an encoded physical representation of the scene to analyze the human-object and object-object interactions within the scene. Using this graphical representation, we adversarially train our model to learn the feasible alignments of the scene elements from the training data itself without explicitly defining the laws and constraints between them. Unlike the existing inference-time optimization-based approaches, we use this adversarially trained model to produce a per-frame 3D reconstruction of the scene that abides by the physical laws and constraints. Our learning-based method achieves comparable 3D reconstruction quality to existing optimization-based holistic human-scene reconstruction methods and does not need inference time optimization. This makes it better suited when compared to existing methods, for potential use in robotic applications, such as robot navigation, etc.

1290
Towards Head Computed Tomography Image Reconstruction Standardization with Deep Learning Assisted Automatic Detection
2023-07-31
Three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction of head Computed Tomography (CT) images elucidates the intricate spatial relationships of tissue structures, thereby assisting in accurate diagnosis. Nonetheless, securing an optimal head CT scan without deviation is challenging in clinical settings, owing to poor positioning by technicians, patient's physical constraints, or CT scanner tilt angle restrictions. Manual formatting and reconstruction not only introduce subjectivity but also strain time and labor resources. To address these issues, we propose an efficient automatic head CT images 3D reconstruction method, improving accuracy and repeatability, as well as diminishing manual intervention. Our approach employs a deep learning-based object detection algorithm, identifying and evaluating orbitomeatal line landmarks to automatically reformat the images prior to reconstruction. Given the dearth of existing evaluations of object detection algorithms in the context of head CT images, we compared ten methods from both theoretical and experimental perspectives. By exploring their precision, efficiency, and robustness, we singled out the lightweight YOLOv8 as the aptest algorithm for our task, with an mAP of 92.91% and impressive robustness against class imbalance. Our qualitative evaluation of standardized reconstruction results demonstrates the clinical practicability and validity of our method.

1291
Stereo Visual Odometry with Deep Learning-Based Point and Line Feature Matching using an Attention Graph Neural Network
2023-08-02
Robust feature matching forms the backbone for most Visual Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (vSLAM), visual odometry, 3D reconstruction, and Structure from Motion (SfM) algorithms. However, recovering feature matches from texture-poor scenes is a major challenge and still remains an open area of research. In this paper, we present a Stereo Visual Odometry (StereoVO) technique based on point and line features which uses a novel feature-matching mechanism based on an Attention Graph Neural Network that is designed to perform well even under adverse weather conditions such as fog, haze, rain, and snow, and dynamic lighting conditions such as nighttime illumination and glare scenarios. We perform experiments on multiple real and synthetic datasets to validate the ability of our method to perform StereoVO under low visibility weather and lighting conditions through robust point and line matches. The results demonstrate that our method achieves more line feature matches than state-of-the-art line matching algorithms, which when complemented with point feature matches perform consistently well in adverse weather and dynamic lighting conditions.

1292
Body Knowledge and Uncertainty Modeling for Monocular 3D Human Body Reconstruction
2023-08-01
While 3D body reconstruction methods have made remarkable progress recently, it remains difficult to acquire the sufficiently accurate and numerous 3D supervisions required for training. In this paper, we propose \textbf{KNOWN}, a framework that effectively utilizes body \textbf{KNOW}ledge and u\textbf{N}certainty modeling to compensate for insufficient 3D supervisions. KNOWN exploits a comprehensive set of generic body constraints derived from well-established body knowledge. These generic constraints precisely and explicitly characterize the reconstruction plausibility and enable 3D reconstruction models to be trained without any 3D data. Moreover, existing methods typically use images from multiple datasets during training, which can result in data noise (\textit{e.g.}, inconsistent joint annotation) and data imbalance (\textit{e.g.}, minority images representing unusual poses or captured from challenging camera views). KNOWN solves these problems through a novel probabilistic framework that models both aleatoric and epistemic uncertainty. Aleatoric uncertainty is encoded in a robust Negative Log-Likelihood (NLL) training loss, while epistemic uncertainty is used to guide model refinement. Experiments demonstrate that KNOWN's body reconstruction outperforms prior weakly-supervised approaches, particularly on the challenging minority images.

1293
Reconstructing Three-Dimensional Models of Interacting Humans
2023-08-03
Understanding 3d human interactions is fundamental for fine-grained scene analysis and behavioural modeling. However, most of the existing models predict incorrect, lifeless 3d estimates, that miss the subtle human contact aspects--the essence of the event--and are of little use for detailed behavioral understanding. This paper addresses such issues with several contributions: (1) we introduce models for interaction signature estimation (ISP) encompassing contact detection, segmentation, and 3d contact signature prediction; (2) we show how such components can be leveraged to ensure contact consistency during 3d reconstruction; (3) we construct several large datasets for learning and evaluating 3d contact prediction and reconstruction methods; specifically, we introduce CHI3D, a lab-based accurate 3d motion capture dataset with 631 sequences containing $2,525$ contact events, $728,664$ ground truth 3d poses, as well as FlickrCI3D, a dataset of $11,216$ images, with $14,081$ processed pairs of people, and $81,233$ facet-level surface correspondences. Finally, (4) we propose methodology for recovering the ground-truth pose and shape of interacting people in a controlled setup and (5) annotate all 3d interaction motions in CHI3D with textual descriptions. Motion data in multiple formats (GHUM and SMPLX parameters, Human3.6m 3d joints) is made available for research purposes at \url{https://ci3d.imar.ro}, together with an evaluation server and a public benchmark.

1294
Learning Photometric Feature Transform for Free-form Object Scan
2023-08-07
We propose a novel framework to automatically learn to aggregate and transform photometric measurements from multiple unstructured views into spatially distinctive and view-invariant low-level features, which are fed to a multi-view stereo method to enhance 3D reconstruction. The illumination conditions during acquisition and the feature transform are jointly trained on a large amount of synthetic data. We further build a system to reconstruct the geometry and anisotropic reflectance of a variety of challenging objects from hand-held scans. The effectiveness of the system is demonstrated with a lightweight prototype, consisting of a camera and an array of LEDs, as well as an off-the-shelf tablet. Our results are validated against reconstructions from a professional 3D scanner and photographs, and compare favorably with state-of-the-art techniques.

1295
ACE-HetEM for ab initio Heterogenous Cryo-EM 3D Reconstruction
2023-08-09
Due to the extremely low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and unknown poses (projection angles and image translation) in cryo-EM experiments, reconstructing 3D structures from 2D images is very challenging. On top of these challenges, heterogeneous cryo-EM reconstruction also has an additional requirement: conformation classification. An emerging solution to this problem is called amortized inference, implemented using the autoencoder architecture or its variants. Instead of searching for the correct image-to-pose/conformation mapping for every image in the dataset as in non-amortized methods, amortized inference only needs to train an encoder that maps images to appropriate latent spaces representing poses or conformations. Unfortunately, standard amortized-inference-based methods with entangled latent spaces have difficulty learning the distribution of conformations and poses from cryo-EM images. In this paper, we propose an unsupervised deep learning architecture called "ACE-HetEM" based on amortized inference. To explicitly enforce the disentanglement of conformation classifications and pose estimations, we designed two alternating training tasks in our method: image-to-image task and pose-to-pose task. Results on simulated datasets show that ACE-HetEM has comparable accuracy in pose estimation and produces even better reconstruction resolution than non-amortized methods. Furthermore, we show that ACE-HetEM is also applicable to real experimental datasets.

1296
PlankAssembly: Robust 3D Reconstruction from Three Orthographic Views with Learnt Shape Programs
2023-08-10
In this paper, we develop a new method to automatically convert 2D line drawings from three orthographic views into 3D CAD models. Existing methods for this problem reconstruct 3D models by back-projecting the 2D observations into 3D space while maintaining explicit correspondence between the input and output. Such methods are sensitive to errors and noises in the input, thus often fail in practice where the input drawings created by human designers are imperfect. To overcome this difficulty, we leverage the attention mechanism in a Transformer-based sequence generation model to learn flexible mappings between the input and output. Further, we design shape programs which are suitable for generating the objects of interest to boost the reconstruction accuracy and facilitate CAD modeling applications. Experiments on a new benchmark dataset show that our method significantly outperforms existing ones when the inputs are noisy or incomplete.

1297
HGDNet: A Height-Hierarchy Guided Dual-Decoder Network for Single View Building Extraction and Height Estimation
2023-08-10
Unifying the correlative single-view satellite image building extraction and height estimation tasks indicates a promising way to share representations and acquire generalist model for large-scale urban 3D reconstruction. However, the common spatial misalignment between building footprints and stereo-reconstructed nDSM height labels incurs degraded performance on both tasks. To address this issue, we propose a Height-hierarchy Guided Dual-decoder Network (HGDNet) to estimate building height. Under the guidance of synthesized discrete height-hierarchy nDSM, auxiliary height-hierarchical building extraction branch enhance the height estimation branch with implicit constraints, yielding an accuracy improvement of more than 6% on the DFC 2023 track2 dataset. Additional two-stage cascade architecture is adopted to achieve more accurate building extraction. Experiments on the DFC 2023 Track 2 dataset shows the superiority of the proposed method in building height estimation ({\delta}1:0.8012), instance extraction (AP50:0.7730), and the final average score 0.7871 ranks in the first place in test phase.

