13
Im2Avatar: Colorful 3D Reconstruction from a Single Image
2018-04-17
Existing works on single-image 3D reconstruction mainly focus on shape
recovery. In this work, we study a new problem, that is, simultaneously
recovering 3D shape and surface color from a single image, namely "colorful 3D
reconstruction". This problem is both challenging and intriguing because the
ability to infer textured 3D model from a single image is at the core of visual
understanding. Here, we propose an end-to-end trainable framework, Colorful
Voxel Network (CVN), to tackle this problem. Conditioned on a single 2D input,
CVN learns to decompose shape and surface color information of a 3D object into
a 3D shape branch and a surface color branch, respectively. Specifically, for
the shape recovery, we generate a shape volume with the state of its voxels
indicating occupancy. For the surface color recovery, we combine the strength
of appearance hallucination and geometric projection by concurrently learning a
regressed color volume and a 2D-to-3D flow volume, which are then fused into a
blended color volume. The final textured 3D model is obtained by sampling color
from the blended color volume at the positions of occupied voxels in the shape
volume. To handle the severe sparse volume representations, a novel loss
function, Mean Squared False Cross-Entropy Loss (MSFCEL), is designed.
Extensive experiments demonstrate that our approach achieves significant
improvement over baselines, and shows great generalization across diverse
object categories and arbitrary viewpoints.

15
Video Based Reconstruction of 3D People Models
2018-03-13
This paper describes how to obtain accurate 3D body models and texture of
arbitrary people from a single, monocular video in which a person is moving.
Based on a parametric body model, we present a robust processing pipeline
achieving 3D model fits with 5mm accuracy also for clothed people. Our main
contribution is a method to nonrigidly deform the silhouette cones
corresponding to the dynamic human silhouettes, resulting in a visual hull in a
common reference frame that enables surface reconstruction. This enables
efficient estimation of a consensus 3D shape, texture and implanted animation
skeleton based on a large number of frames. We present evaluation results for a
number of test subjects and analyze overall performance. Requiring only a
smartphone or webcam, our method enables everyone to create their own fully
animatable digital double, e.g., for social VR applications or virtual try-on
for online fashion shopping.

17
Nonlinear 3D Face Morphable Model
2018-04-11
As a classic statistical model of 3D facial shape and texture, 3D Morphable
Model (3DMM) is widely used in facial analysis, e.g., model fitting, image
synthesis. Conventional 3DMM is learned from a set of well-controlled 2D face
images with associated 3D face scans, and represented by two sets of PCA basis
functions. Due to the type and amount of training data, as well as the linear
bases, the representation power of 3DMM can be limited. To address these
problems, this paper proposes an innovative framework to learn a nonlinear 3DMM
model from a large set of unconstrained face images, without collecting 3D face
scans. Specifically, given a face image as input, a network encoder estimates
the projection, shape and texture parameters. Two decoders serve as the
nonlinear 3DMM to map from the shape and texture parameters to the 3D shape and
texture, respectively. With the projection parameter, 3D shape, and texture, a
novel analytically-differentiable rendering layer is designed to reconstruct
the original input face. The entire network is end-to-end trainable with only
weak supervision. We demonstrate the superior representation power of our
nonlinear 3DMM over its linear counterpart, and its contribution to face
alignment and 3D reconstruction.

20
MVSNet: Depth Inference for Unstructured Multi-view Stereo
2018-04-07
We present an end-to-end deep learning architecture for depth map inference
from multi-view images. In the network, we first extract deep visual image
features, and then build the 3D cost volume upon the reference camera frustum
via the differentiable homography warping. Next, we apply 3D convolutions to
regularize and regress the initial depth map, which is then refined with the
reference image to generate the final output. Our framework flexibly adapts
arbitrary N-view inputs using a variance-based cost metric that maps multiple
features into one cost feature. The proposed MVSNet is demonstrated on the
large-scale indoor DTU dataset. With simple post-processing, our method not
only significantly outperforms previous state-of-the-arts, but also is several
times faster in runtime. We also evaluate MVSNet on the complex outdoor Tanks
and Temples dataset, where our method ranks first before April 18, 2018 without
any fine-tuning, showing the strong generalization ability of MVSNet.

30
A Neural Network Approach to Missing Marker Reconstruction in Human Motion Capture
2018-03-07
Optical motion capture systems have become a widely used technology in
various fields, such as augmented reality, robotics, movie production, etc.
Such systems use a large number of cameras to triangulate the position of
optical markers.The marker positions are estimated with high accuracy. However,
especially when tracking articulated bodies, a fraction of the markers in each
timestep is missing from the reconstruction. In this paper, we propose to use a
neural network approach to learn how human motion is temporally and spatially
correlated, and reconstruct missing markers positions through this model. We
experiment with two different models, one LSTM-based and one time-window-based.
Both methods produce state-of-the-art results, while working online, as opposed
to most of the alternative methods, which require the complete sequence to be
known. The implementation is publicly available at
https://github.com/Svito-zar/NN-for-Missing-Marker-Reconstruction .

166
Road surface 3d reconstruction based on dense subpixel disparity map estimation
2018-07-05
Various 3D reconstruction methods have enabled civil engineers to detect damage on a road surface. To achieve the millimetre accuracy required for road condition assessment, a disparity map with subpixel resolution needs to be used. However, none of the existing stereo matching algorithms are specially suitable for the reconstruction of the road surface. Hence in this paper, we propose a novel dense subpixel disparity estimation algorithm with high computational efficiency and robustness. This is achieved by first transforming the perspective view of the target frame into the reference view, which not only increases the accuracy of the block matching for the road surface but also improves the processing speed. The disparities are then estimated iteratively using our previously published algorithm where the search range is propagated from three estimated neighbouring disparities. Since the search range is obtained from the previous iteration, errors may occur when the propagated search range is not sufficient. Therefore, a correlation maxima verification is performed to rectify this issue, and the subpixel resolution is achieved by conducting a parabola interpolation enhancement. Furthermore, a novel disparity global refinement approach developed from the Markov Random Fields and Fast Bilateral Stereo is introduced to further improve the accuracy of the estimated disparity map, where disparities are updated iteratively by minimising the energy function that is related to their interpolated correlation polynomials. The algorithm is implemented in C language with a near real-time performance. The experimental results illustrate that the absolute error of the reconstruction varies from 0.1 mm to 3 mm.

184
On Learning 3D Face Morphable Model from In-the-wild Images
2018-08-28
As a classic statistical model of 3D facial shape and albedo, 3D Morphable Model (3DMM) is widely used in facial analysis, e.g., model fitting, image synthesis. Conventional 3DMM is learned from a set of 3D face scans with associated well-controlled 2D face images, and represented by two sets of PCA basis functions. Due to the type and amount of training data, as well as, the linear bases, the representation power of 3DMM can be limited. To address these problems, this paper proposes an innovative framework to learn a nonlinear 3DMM model from a large set of in-the-wild face images, without collecting 3D face scans. Specifically, given a face image as input, a network encoder estimates the projection, lighting, shape and albedo parameters. Two decoders serve as the nonlinear 3DMM to map from the shape and albedo parameters to the 3D shape and albedo, respectively. With the projection parameter, lighting, 3D shape, and albedo, a novel analytically-differentiable rendering layer is designed to reconstruct the original input face. The entire network is end-to-end trainable with only weak supervision. We demonstrate the superior representation power of our nonlinear 3DMM over its linear counterpart, and its contribution to face alignment, 3D reconstruction, and face editing.

200
Multiview Supervision By Registration
2018-11-27
This paper presents a semi-supervised learning framework to train a keypoint
detector using multiview image streams given the limited labeled data
(typically $<$4\%). We leverage the complementary relationship between
multiview geometry and visual tracking to provide three types of supervisionary
signals to utilize the unlabeled data: (1) keypoint detection in one view can
be supervised by other views via the epipolar geometry; (2) a keypoint moves
smoothly over time where its optical flow can be used to temporally supervise
consecutive image frames to each other; (3) visible keypoint in one view is
likely to be visible in the adjacent view. We integrate these three signals in
a differentiable fashion to design a new end-to-end neural network composed of
three pathways. This design allows us to extensively use the unlabeled data to
train the keypoint detector. We show that our approach outperforms existing
detectors including DeepLabCut tailored to the keypoint detection of non-human
species such as monkeys, dogs, and mice.

241
RayNet: Learning Volumetric 3D Reconstruction with Ray Potentials
2019-01-06
In this paper, we consider the problem of reconstructing a dense 3D model
using images captured from different views. Recent methods based on
convolutional neural networks (CNN) allow learning the entire task from data.
However, they do not incorporate the physics of image formation such as
perspective geometry and occlusion. Instead, classical approaches based on
Markov Random Fields (MRF) with ray-potentials explicitly model these physical
processes, but they cannot cope with large surface appearance variations across
different viewpoints. In this paper, we propose RayNet, which combines the
strengths of both frameworks. RayNet integrates a CNN that learns
view-invariant feature representations with an MRF that explicitly encodes the
physics of perspective projection and occlusion. We train RayNet end-to-end
using empirical risk minimization. We thoroughly evaluate our approach on
challenging real-world datasets and demonstrate its benefits over a piece-wise
trained baseline, hand-crafted models as well as other learning-based
approaches.

334
Single-Image Piece-wise Planar 3D Reconstruction via Associative Embedding
2019-02-26
Single-image piece-wise planar 3D reconstruction aims to simultaneously
segment plane instances and recover 3D plane parameters from an image. Most
recent approaches leverage convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and achieve
promising results. However, these methods are limited to detecting a fixed
number of planes with certain learned order. To tackle this problem, we propose
a novel two-stage method based on associative embedding, inspired by its recent
success in instance segmentation. In the first stage, we train a CNN to map
each pixel to an embedding space where pixels from the same plane instance have
similar embeddings. Then, the plane instances are obtained by grouping the
embedding vectors in planar regions via an efficient mean shift clustering
algorithm. In the second stage, we estimate the parameter for each plane
instance by considering both pixel-level and instance-level consistencies. With
the proposed method, we are able to detect an arbitrary number of planes.
Extensive experiments on public datasets validate the effectiveness and
efficiency of our method. Furthermore, our method runs at 30 fps at the testing
time, thus could facilitate many real-time applications such as visual SLAM and
human-robot interaction. Code is available at
https://github.com/svip-lab/PlanarReconstruction.

339
Live Reconstruction of Large-Scale Dynamic Outdoor Worlds
2019-03-15
Standard 3D reconstruction pipelines assume stationary world, therefore
suffer from `ghost artifacts' whenever dynamic objects are present in the
scene. Recent approaches has started tackling this issue, however, they
typically either only discard dynamic information, represent it using bounding
boxes or per-frame depth or rely on approaches that are inherently slow and not
suitable to online settings.
  We propose an end-to-end system for live reconstruction of large-scale
outdoor dynamic environments. We leverage recent advances in computationally
efficient data-driven approaches for 6-DoF object pose estimation to segment
the scene into objects and stationary `background'. This allows us to represent
the scene using a time-dependent (dynamic) map, in which each object is
explicitly represented as a separate instance and reconstructed in its own
volume. For each time step, our dynamic map maintains a relative pose of each
volume with respect to the stationary background. Our system operates in
incremental manner which is essential for on-line reconstruction, handles
large-scale environments with objects at large distances and runs in (near)
real-time. We demonstrate the efficacy of our approach on the KITTI dataset,
and provide qualitative and quantitative results showing high-quality dense 3D
reconstructions of a number of dynamic scenes.

353
Single Image 3D Hand Reconstruction with Mesh Convolutions
2019-05-04
Monocular 3D reconstruction of deformable objects, such as human body parts, has been typically approached by predicting parameters of heavyweight linear models. In this paper, we demonstrate an alternative solution that is based on the idea of encoding images into a latent non-linear representation of meshes. The prior on 3D hand shapes is learned by training an autoencoder with intrinsic graph convolutions performed in the spectral domain. The pre-trained decoder acts as a non-linear statistical deformable model. The latent parameters that reconstruct the shape and articulated pose of hands in the image are predicted using an image encoder. We show that our system reconstructs plausible meshes and operates in real-time. We evaluate the quality of the mesh reconstructions produced by the decoder on a new dataset and show latent space interpolation results. Our code, data, and models will be made publicly available.

399
Probabilistic Reconstruction Networks for 3D Shape Inference from a Single Image
2019-08-20
We study end-to-end learning strategies for 3D shape inference from images, in particular from a single image. Several approaches in this direction have been investigated that explore different shape representations and suitable learning architectures. We focus instead on the underlying probabilistic mechanisms involved and contribute a more principled probabilistic inference-based reconstruction framework, which we coin Probabilistic Reconstruction Networks. This framework expresses image conditioned 3D shape inference through a family of latent variable models, and naturally decouples the choice of shape representations from the inference itself. Moreover, it suggests different options for the image conditioning and allows training in two regimes, using either Monte Carlo or variational approximation of the marginal likelihood. Using our Probabilistic Reconstruction Networks we obtain single image 3D reconstruction results that set a new state of the art on the ShapeNet dataset in terms of the intersection over union and earth mover's distance evaluation metrics. Interestingly, we obtain these results using a basic voxel grid representation, improving over recent work based on finer point cloud or mesh based representations.

407
Self-Supervised Deep Depth Denoising
2019-09-03
Depth perception is considered an invaluable source of information for various vision tasks. However, depth maps acquired using consumer-level sensors still suffer from non-negligible noise. This fact has recently motivated researchers to exploit traditional filters, as well as the deep learning paradigm, in order to suppress the aforementioned non-uniform noise, while preserving geometric details. Despite the effort, deep depth denoising is still an open challenge mainly due to the lack of clean data that could be used as ground truth. In this paper, we propose a fully convolutional deep autoencoder that learns to denoise depth maps, surpassing the lack of ground truth data. Specifically, the proposed autoencoder exploits multiple views of the same scene from different points of view in order to learn to suppress noise in a self-supervised end-to-end manner using depth and color information during training, yet only depth during inference. To enforce selfsupervision, we leverage a differentiable rendering technique to exploit photometric supervision, which is further regularized using geometric and surface priors. As the proposed approach relies on raw data acquisition, a large RGB-D corpus is collected using Intel RealSense sensors. Complementary to a quantitative evaluation, we demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed self-supervised denoising approach on established 3D reconstruction applications. Code is avalable at https://github.com/VCL3D/DeepDepthDenoising

415
An Efficient Sampling-based Method for Online Informative Path Planning in Unknown Environments
2019-09-20
The ability to plan informative paths online is essential to robot autonomy. In particular, sampling-based approaches are often used as they are capable of using arbitrary information gain formulations. However, they are prone to local minima, resulting in sub-optimal trajectories, and sometimes do not reach global coverage. In this paper, we present a new RRT*-inspired online informative path planning algorithm. Our method continuously expands a single tree of candidate trajectories and rewires segments to maintain the tree and refine intermediate trajectories. This allows the algorithm to achieve global coverage and maximize the utility of a path in a global context, using a single objective function. We demonstrate the algorithm's capabilities in the applications of autonomous indoor exploration as well as accurate Truncated Signed Distance Field (TSDF)-based 3D reconstruction on-board a Micro Aerial vehicle (MAV). We study the impact of commonly used information gain and cost formulations in these scenarios and propose a novel TSDF-based 3D reconstruction gain and cost-utility formulation. Detailed evaluation in realistic simulation environments show that our approach outperforms state of the art methods in these tasks. Experiments on a real MAV demonstrate the ability of our method to robustly plan in real-time, exploring an indoor environment solely with on-board sensing and computation. We make our framework available for future research.

421
Kimera: an Open-Source Library for Real-Time Metric-Semantic Localization and Mapping
2019-10-06
We provide an open-source C++ library for real-time metric-semantic visual-inertial Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM). The library goes beyond existing visual and visual-inertial SLAM libraries (e.g., ORB-SLAM, VINS- Mono, OKVIS, ROVIO) by enabling mesh reconstruction and semantic labeling in 3D. Kimera is designed with modularity in mind and has four key components: a visual-inertial odometry (VIO) module for fast and accurate state estimation, a robust pose graph optimizer for global trajectory estimation, a lightweight 3D mesher module for fast mesh reconstruction, and a dense 3D metric-semantic reconstruction module. The modules can be run in isolation or in combination, hence Kimera can easily fall back to a state-of-the-art VIO or a full SLAM system. Kimera runs in real-time on a CPU and produces a 3D metric-semantic mesh from semantically labeled images, which can be obtained by modern deep learning methods. We hope that the flexibility, computational efficiency, robustness, and accuracy afforded by Kimera will build a solid basis for future metric-semantic SLAM and perception research, and will allow researchers across multiple areas (e.g., VIO, SLAM, 3D reconstruction, segmentation) to benchmark and prototype their own efforts without having to start from scratch.

438
Tigris: Architecture and Algorithms for 3D Perception in Point Clouds
2019-11-16
Machine perception applications are increasingly moving toward manipulating and processing 3D point cloud. This paper focuses on point cloud registration, a key primitive of 3D data processing widely used in high-level tasks such as odometry, simultaneous localization and mapping, and 3D reconstruction. As these applications are routinely deployed in energy-constrained environments, real-time and energy-efficient point cloud registration is critical. We present Tigris, an algorithm-architecture co-designed system specialized for point cloud registration. Through an extensive exploration of the registration pipeline design space, we find that, while different design points make vastly different trade-offs between accuracy and performance, KD-tree search is a common performance bottleneck, and thus is an ideal candidate for architectural specialization. While KD-tree search is inherently sequential, we propose an acceleration-amenable data structure and search algorithm that exposes different forms of parallelism of KD-tree search in the context of point cloud registration. The co-designed accelerator systematically exploits the parallelism while incorporating a set of architectural techniques that further improve the accelerator efficiency. Overall, Tigris achieves 77.2$\times$ speedup and 7.4$\times$ power reduction in KD-tree search over an RTX 2080 Ti GPU, which translates to a 41.7% registration performance improvements and 3.0$\times$ power reduction.

444
Deep Stereo using Adaptive Thin Volume Representation with Uncertainty Awareness
2019-11-27
We present Uncertainty-aware Cascaded Stereo Network (UCS-Net) for 3D reconstruction from multiple RGB images. Multi-view stereo (MVS) aims to reconstruct fine-grained scene geometry from multi-view images. Previous learning-based MVS methods estimate per-view depth using plane sweep volumes with a fixed depth hypothesis at each plane; this generally requires densely sampled planes for desired accuracy, and it is very hard to achieve high-resolution depth. In contrast, we propose adaptive thin volumes (ATVs); in an ATV, the depth hypothesis of each plane is spatially varying, which adapts to the uncertainties of previous per-pixel depth predictions. Our UCS-Net has three stages: the first stage processes a small standard plane sweep volume to predict low-resolution depth; two ATVs are then used in the following stages to refine the depth with higher resolution and higher accuracy. Our ATV consists of only a small number of planes; yet, it efficiently partitions local depth ranges within learned small intervals. In particular, we propose to use variance-based uncertainty estimates to adaptively construct ATVs; this differentiable process introduces reasonable and fine-grained spatial partitioning. Our multi-stage framework progressively subdivides the vast scene space with increasing depth resolution and precision, which enables scene reconstruction with high completeness and accuracy in a coarse-to-fine fashion. We demonstrate that our method achieves superior performance compared with state-of-the-art benchmarks on various challenging datasets.

467
RoutedFusion: Learning Real-time Depth Map Fusion
2020-01-13
The efficient fusion of depth maps is a key part of most state-of-the-art 3D reconstruction methods. Besides requiring high accuracy, these depth fusion methods need to be scalable and real-time capable. To this end, we present a novel real-time capable machine learning-based method for depth map fusion. Similar to the seminal depth map fusion approach by Curless and Levoy, we only update a local group of voxels to ensure real-time capability. Instead of a simple linear fusion of depth information, we propose a neural network that predicts non-linear updates to better account for typical fusion errors. Our network is composed of a 2D depth routing network and a 3D depth fusion network which efficiently handle sensor-specific noise and outliers. This is especially useful for surface edges and thin objects for which the original approach suffers from thickening artifacts. Our method outperforms the traditional fusion approach and related learned approaches on both synthetic and real data. We demonstrate the performance of our method in reconstructing fine geometric details from noise and outlier contaminated data on various scenes.

472
PeeledHuman: Robust Shape Representation for Textured 3D Human Body Reconstruction
2020-02-16
We introduce PeeledHuman - a novel shape representation of the human body that is robust to self-occlusions. PeeledHuman encodes the human body as a set of Peeled Depth and RGB maps in 2D, obtained by performing ray-tracing on the 3D body model and extending each ray beyond its first intersection. This formulation allows us to handle self-occlusions efficiently compared to other representations. Given a monocular RGB image, we learn these Peeled maps in an end-to-end generative adversarial fashion using our novel framework - PeelGAN. We train PeelGAN using a 3D Chamfer loss and other 2D losses to generate multiple depth values per-pixel and a corresponding RGB field per-vertex in a dual-branch setup. In our simple non-parametric solution, the generated Peeled Depth maps are back-projected to 3D space to obtain a complete textured 3D shape. The corresponding RGB maps provide vertex-level texture details. We compare our method with current parametric and non-parametric methods in 3D reconstruction and find that we achieve state-of-the-art-results. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our representation on publicly available BUFF and MonoPerfCap datasets as well as loose clothing data collected by our calibrated multi-Kinect setup.

476
Fast and Regularized Reconstruction of Building Façades from Street-View Images using Binary Integer Programming
2020-02-20
Regularized arrangement of primitives on building fa\c{c}ades to aligned locations and consistent sizes is important towards structured reconstruction of urban environment. Mixed integer linear programing was used to solve the problem, however, it is extreamly time consuming even for state-of-the-art commercial solvers. Aiming to alleviate this issue, we cast the problem into binary integer programming, which omits the requirements for real value parameters and is more efficient to be solved . Firstly, the bounding boxes of the primitives are detected using the YOLOv3 architecture in real-time. Secondly, the coordinates of the upper left corners and the sizes of the bounding boxes are automatically clustered in a binary integer programming optimization, which jointly considers the geometric fitness, regularity and additional constraints; this step does not require \emph{a priori} knowledge, such as the number of clusters or pre-defined grammars. Finally, the regularized bounding boxes can be directly used to guide the fa\c{c}ade reconstruction in an interactive envinronment. Experimental evaluations have revealed that the accuracies for the extraction of primitives are above 0.82, which is sufficient for the following 3D reconstruction. The proposed approach only takes about $ 10\% $ to $ 20\% $ of the runtime than previous approach and reduces the diversity of the bounding boxes to about $20\%$ to $50\%$.

490
Atlas: End-to-End 3D Scene Reconstruction from Posed Images
2020-03-23
We present an end-to-end 3D reconstruction method for a scene by directly regressing a truncated signed distance function (TSDF) from a set of posed RGB images. Traditional approaches to 3D reconstruction rely on an intermediate representation of depth maps prior to estimating a full 3D model of a scene. We hypothesize that a direct regression to 3D is more effective. A 2D CNN extracts features from each image independently which are then back-projected and accumulated into a voxel volume using the camera intrinsics and extrinsics. After accumulation, a 3D CNN refines the accumulated features and predicts the TSDF values. Additionally, semantic segmentation of the 3D model is obtained without significant computation. This approach is evaluated on the Scannet dataset where we significantly outperform state-of-the-art baselines (deep multiview stereo followed by traditional TSDF fusion) both quantitatively and qualitatively. We compare our 3D semantic segmentation to prior methods that use a depth sensor since no previous work attempts the problem with only RGB input.

528
Learning to Detect 3D Reflection Symmetry for Single-View Reconstruction
2020-06-17
3D reconstruction from a single RGB image is a challenging problem in computer vision. Previous methods are usually solely data-driven, which lead to inaccurate 3D shape recovery and limited generalization capability. In this work, we focus on object-level 3D reconstruction and present a geometry-based end-to-end deep learning framework that first detects the mirror plane of reflection symmetry that commonly exists in man-made objects and then predicts depth maps by finding the intra-image pixel-wise correspondence of the symmetry. Our method fully utilizes the geometric cues from symmetry during the test time by building plane-sweep cost volumes, a powerful tool that has been used in multi-view stereopsis. To our knowledge, this is the first work that uses the concept of cost volumes in the setting of single-image 3D reconstruction. We conduct extensive experiments on the ShapeNet dataset and find that our reconstruction method significantly outperforms the previous state-of-the-art single-view 3D reconstruction networks in term of the accuracy of camera poses and depth maps, without requiring objects being completely symmetric. Code is available at https://github.com/zhou13/symmetrynet.

530
3D Shape Reconstruction from Free-Hand Sketches
2020-06-17
Sketches are the most abstract 2D representations of real-world objects. Although a sketch usually has geometrical distortion and lacks visual cues, humans can effortlessly envision a 3D object from it. This suggests that sketches encode the information necessary for reconstructing 3D shapes. Despite great progress achieved in 3D reconstruction from distortion-free line drawings, such as CAD and edge maps, little effort has been made to reconstruct 3D shapes from free-hand sketches. We study this task and aim to enhance the power of sketches in 3D-related applications such as interactive design and VR/AR games. Unlike previous works, which mostly study distortion-free line drawings, our 3D shape reconstruction is based on free-hand sketches. A major challenge for free-hand sketch 3D reconstruction comes from the insufficient training data and free-hand sketch diversity, e.g. individualized sketching styles. We thus propose data generation and standardization mechanisms. Instead of distortion-free line drawings, synthesized sketches are adopted as input training data. Additionally, we propose a sketch standardization module to handle different sketch distortions and styles. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our model and its strong generalizability to various free-hand sketches. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/samaonline/3D-Shape-Reconstruction-from-Free-Hand-Sketches.

532
HyNet: Learning Local Descriptor with Hybrid Similarity Measure and Triplet Loss
2020-06-17
Recent works show that local descriptor learning benefits from the use of L2 normalisation, however, an in-depth analysis of this effect lacks in the literature. In this paper, we investigate how L2 normalisation affects the back-propagated descriptor gradients during training. Based on our observations, we propose HyNet, a new local descriptor that leads to state-of-the-art results in matching. HyNet introduces a hybrid similarity measure for triplet margin loss, a regularisation term constraining the descriptor norm, and a new network architecture that performs L2 normalisation of all intermediate feature maps and the output descriptors. HyNet surpasses previous methods by a significant margin on standard benchmarks that include patch matching, verification, and retrieval, as well as outperforming full end-to-end methods on 3D reconstruction tasks.

553
GSNet: Joint Vehicle Pose and Shape Reconstruction with Geometrical and Scene-aware Supervision
2020-07-26
We present a novel end-to-end framework named as GSNet (Geometric and Scene-aware Network), which jointly estimates 6DoF poses and reconstructs detailed 3D car shapes from single urban street view. GSNet utilizes a unique four-way feature extraction and fusion scheme and directly regresses 6DoF poses and shapes in a single forward pass. Extensive experiments show that our diverse feature extraction and fusion scheme can greatly improve model performance. Based on a divide-and-conquer 3D shape representation strategy, GSNet reconstructs 3D vehicle shape with great detail (1352 vertices and 2700 faces). This dense mesh representation further leads us to consider geometrical consistency and scene context, and inspires a new multi-objective loss function to regularize network training, which in turn improves the accuracy of 6D pose estimation and validates the merit of jointly performing both tasks. We evaluate GSNet on the largest multi-task ApolloCar3D benchmark and achieve state-of-the-art performance both quantitatively and qualitatively. Project page is available at https://lkeab.github.io/gsnet/.

555
Event-based Stereo Visual Odometry
2020-07-30
Event-based cameras are bio-inspired vision sensors whose pixels work independently from each other and respond asynchronously to brightness changes, with microsecond resolution. Their advantages make it possible to tackle challenging scenarios in robotics, such as high-speed and high dynamic range scenes. We present a solution to the problem of visual odometry from the data acquired by a stereo event-based camera rig. Our system follows a parallel tracking-and-mapping approach, where novel solutions to each subproblem (3D reconstruction and camera pose estimation) are developed with two objectives in mind: being principled and efficient, for real-time operation with commodity hardware. To this end, we seek to maximize the spatio-temporal consistency of stereo event-based data while using a simple and efficient representation. Specifically, the mapping module builds a semi-dense 3D map of the scene by fusing depth estimates from multiple local viewpoints (obtained by spatio-temporal consistency) in a probabilistic fashion. The tracking module recovers the pose of the stereo rig by solving a registration problem that naturally arises due to the chosen map and event data representation. Experiments on publicly available datasets and on our own recordings demonstrate the versatility of the proposed method in natural scenes with general 6-DoF motion. The system successfully leverages the advantages of event-based cameras to perform visual odometry in challenging illumination conditions, such as low-light and high dynamic range, while running in real-time on a standard CPU. We release the software and dataset under an open source licence to foster research in the emerging topic of event-based SLAM.

564
BraggNN: Fast X-ray Bragg Peak Analysis Using Deep Learning
2020-08-18
X-ray diffraction based microscopy techniques such as High Energy Diffraction Microscopy rely on knowledge of the position of diffraction peaks with high precision. These positions are typically computed by fitting the observed intensities in area detector data to a theoretical peak shape such as pseudo-Voigt. As experiments become more complex and detector technologies evolve, the computational cost of such peak detection and shape fitting becomes the biggest hurdle to the rapid analysis required for real-time feedback during in-situ experiments. To this end, we propose BraggNN, a deep learning-based method that can determine peak positions much more rapidly than conventional pseudo-Voigt peak fitting. When applied to a test dataset, BraggNN gives errors of less than 0.29 and 0.57 pixels, relative to the conventional method, for 75% and 95% of the peaks, respectively. When applied to a real experimental dataset, a 3D reconstruction that used peak positions computed by BraggNN yields 15% better results on average as compared to a reconstruction obtained using peak positions determined using conventional 2D pseudo-Voigt fitting. Recent advances in deep learning method implementations and special-purpose model inference accelerators allow BraggNN to deliver enormous performance improvements relative to the conventional method, running, for example, more than 200 times faster than a conventional method on a consumer-class GPU card with out-of-the-box software.

605
PCLs: Geometry-aware Neural Reconstruction of 3D Pose with Perspective Crop Layers
2020-11-27
Local processing is an essential feature of CNNs and other neural network architectures - it is one of the reasons why they work so well on images where relevant information is, to a large extent, local. However, perspective effects stemming from the projection in a conventional camera vary for different global positions in the image. We introduce Perspective Crop Layers (PCLs) - a form of perspective crop of the region of interest based on the camera geometry - and show that accounting for the perspective consistently improves the accuracy of state-of-the-art 3D pose reconstruction methods. PCLs are modular neural network layers, which, when inserted into existing CNN and MLP architectures, deterministically remove the location-dependent perspective effects while leaving end-to-end training and the number of parameters of the underlying neural network unchanged. We demonstrate that PCL leads to improved 3D human pose reconstruction accuracy for CNN architectures that use cropping operations, such as spatial transformer networks (STN), and, somewhat surprisingly, MLPs used for 2D-to-3D keypoint lifting. Our conclusion is that it is important to utilize camera calibration information when available, for classical and deep-learning-based computer vision alike. PCL offers an easy way to improve the accuracy of existing 3D reconstruction networks by making them geometry aware. Our code is publicly available at github.com/yu-frank/PerspectiveCropLayers.

609
PatchmatchNet: Learned Multi-View Patchmatch Stereo
2020-12-02
We present PatchmatchNet, a novel and learnable cascade formulation of Patchmatch for high-resolution multi-view stereo. With high computation speed and low memory requirement, PatchmatchNet can process higher resolution imagery and is more suited to run on resource limited devices than competitors that employ 3D cost volume regularization. For the first time we introduce an iterative multi-scale Patchmatch in an end-to-end trainable architecture and improve the Patchmatch core algorithm with a novel and learned adaptive propagation and evaluation scheme for each iteration. Extensive experiments show a very competitive performance and generalization for our method on DTU, Tanks & Temples and ETH3D, but at a significantly higher efficiency than all existing top-performing models: at least two and a half times faster than state-of-the-art methods with twice less memory usage.

626
DI-Fusion: Online Implicit 3D Reconstruction with Deep Priors
2020-12-10
Previous online 3D dense reconstruction methods struggle to achieve the balance between memory storage and surface quality, largely due to the usage of stagnant underlying geometry representation, such as TSDF (truncated signed distance functions) or surfels, without any knowledge of the scene priors. In this paper, we present DI-Fusion (Deep Implicit Fusion), based on a novel 3D representation, i.e. Probabilistic Local Implicit Voxels (PLIVoxs), for online 3D reconstruction with a commodity RGB-D camera. Our PLIVox encodes scene priors considering both the local geometry and uncertainty parameterized by a deep neural network. With such deep priors, we are able to perform online implicit 3D reconstruction achieving state-of-the-art camera trajectory estimation accuracy and mapping quality, while achieving better storage efficiency compared with previous online 3D reconstruction approaches. Our implementation is available at https://www.github.com/huangjh-pub/di-fusion.

641
SERV-CT: A disparity dataset from CT for validation of endoscopic 3D reconstruction
2020-12-22
In computer vision, reference datasets have been highly successful in promoting algorithmic development in stereo reconstruction. Surgical scenes gives rise to specific problems, including the lack of clear corner features, highly specular surfaces and the presence of blood and smoke. Publicly available datasets have been produced using CT and either phantom images or biological tissue samples covering a relatively small region of the endoscope field-of-view. We present a stereo-endoscopic reconstruction validation dataset based on CT (SERV-CT). Two {\it ex vivo} small porcine full torso cadavers were placed within the view of the endoscope with both the endoscope and target anatomy visible in the CT scan. Orientation of the endoscope was manually aligned to the stereoscopic view. Reference disparities and occlusions were calculated for 8 stereo pairs from each sample. For the second sample an RGB surface was acquired to aid alignment of smooth, featureless surfaces. Repeated manual alignments showed an RMS disparity accuracy of ~2 pixels and a depth accuracy of ~2mm. The reference dataset includes endoscope image pairs with corresponding calibration, disparities, depths and occlusions covering the majority of the endoscopic image and a range of tissue types. Smooth specular surfaces and images with significant variation of depth are included. We assessed the performance of various stereo algorithms from online available repositories. There is a significant variation between algorithms, highlighting some of the challenges of surgical endoscopic images. The SERV-CT dataset provides an easy to use stereoscopic validation for surgical applications with smooth reference disparities and depths with coverage over the majority of the endoscopic images. This complements existing resources well and we hope will aid the development of surgical endoscopic anatomical reconstruction algorithms.

645
Weakly-Supervised Multi-Face 3D Reconstruction
2021-01-06
3D face reconstruction plays a very important role in many real-world multimedia applications, including digital entertainment, social media, affection analysis, and person identification. The de-facto pipeline for estimating the parametric face model from an image requires to firstly detect the facial regions with landmarks, and then crop each face to feed the deep learning-based regressor. Comparing to the conventional methods performing forward inference for each detected instance independently, we suggest an effective end-to-end framework for multi-face 3D reconstruction, which is able to predict the model parameters of multiple instances simultaneously using single network inference. Our proposed approach not only greatly reduces the computational redundancy in feature extraction but also makes the deployment procedure much easier using the single network model. More importantly, we employ the same global camera model for the reconstructed faces in each image, which makes it possible to recover the relative head positions and orientations in the 3D scene. We have conducted extensive experiments to evaluate our proposed approach on the sparse and dense face alignment tasks. The experimental results indicate that our proposed approach is very promising on face alignment tasks without fully-supervision and pre-processing like detection and crop. Our implementation is publicly available at \url{https://github.com/kalyo-zjl/WM3DR}.

648
Kimera: from SLAM to Spatial Perception with 3D Dynamic Scene Graphs
2021-01-18
Humans are able to form a complex mental model of the environment they move in. This mental model captures geometric and semantic aspects of the scene, describes the environment at multiple levels of abstractions (e.g., objects, rooms, buildings), includes static and dynamic entities and their relations (e.g., a person is in a room at a given time). In contrast, current robots' internal representations still provide a partial and fragmented understanding of the environment, either in the form of a sparse or dense set of geometric primitives (e.g., points, lines, planes, voxels) or as a collection of objects. This paper attempts to reduce the gap between robot and human perception by introducing a novel representation, a 3D Dynamic Scene Graph(DSG), that seamlessly captures metric and semantic aspects of a dynamic environment. A DSG is a layered graph where nodes represent spatial concepts at different levels of abstraction, and edges represent spatio-temporal relations among nodes. Our second contribution is Kimera, the first fully automatic method to build a DSG from visual-inertial data. Kimera includes state-of-the-art techniques for visual-inertial SLAM, metric-semantic 3D reconstruction, object localization, human pose and shape estimation, and scene parsing. Our third contribution is a comprehensive evaluation of Kimera in real-life datasets and photo-realistic simulations, including a newly released dataset, uHumans2, which simulates a collection of crowded indoor and outdoor scenes. Our evaluation shows that Kimera achieves state-of-the-art performance in visual-inertial SLAM, estimates an accurate 3D metric-semantic mesh model in real-time, and builds a DSG of a complex indoor environment with tens of objects and humans in minutes. Our final contribution shows how to use a DSG for real-time hierarchical semantic path-planning. The core modules in Kimera are open-source.

661
SMPLicit: Topology-aware Generative Model for Clothed People
2021-03-11
In this paper we introduce SMPLicit, a novel generative model to jointly represent body pose, shape and clothing geometry. In contrast to existing learning-based approaches that require training specific models for each type of garment, SMPLicit can represent in a unified manner different garment topologies (e.g. from sleeveless tops to hoodies and to open jackets), while controlling other properties like the garment size or tightness/looseness. We show our model to be applicable to a large variety of garments including T-shirts, hoodies, jackets, shorts, pants, skirts, shoes and even hair. The representation flexibility of SMPLicit builds upon an implicit model conditioned with the SMPL human body parameters and a learnable latent space which is semantically interpretable and aligned with the clothing attributes. The proposed model is fully differentiable, allowing for its use into larger end-to-end trainable systems. In the experimental section, we demonstrate SMPLicit can be readily used for fitting 3D scans and for 3D reconstruction in images of dressed people. In both cases we are able to go beyond state of the art, by retrieving complex garment geometries, handling situations with multiple clothing layers and providing a tool for easy outfit editing. To stimulate further research in this direction, we will make our code and model publicly available at http://www.iri.upc.edu/people/ecorona/smplicit/.

662
Multi-view data capture for dynamic object reconstruction using handheld augmented reality mobiles
2021-03-14
We propose a system to capture nearly-synchronous frame streams from multiple and moving handheld mobiles that is suitable for dynamic object 3D reconstruction. Each mobile executes Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping on-board to estimate its pose, and uses a wireless communication channel to send or receive synchronisation triggers. Our system can harvest frames and mobile poses in real time using a decentralised triggering strategy and a data-relay architecture that can be deployed either at the Edge or in the Cloud. We show the effectiveness of our system by employing it for 3D skeleton and volumetric reconstructions. Our triggering strategy achieves equal performance to that of an NTP-based synchronisation approach, but offers higher flexibility, as it can be adjusted online based on application needs. We created a challenging new dataset, namely 4DM, that involves six handheld augmented reality mobiles recording an actor performing sports actions outdoors. We validate our system on 4DM, analyse its strengths and limitations, and compare its modules with alternative ones.

671
Heuristics for optimizing 3D mapping missions over swarm-powered ad hoc clouds
2021-03-11
Drones have been getting more and more popular in many economy sectors. Both scientific and industrial communities aim at making the impact of drones even more disruptive by empowering collaborative autonomous behaviors -- also known as swarming behaviors -- within fleets of multiple drones. In swarming-powered 3D mapping missions, unmanned aerial vehicles typically collect the aerial pictures of the target area whereas the 3D reconstruction process is performed in a centralized manner. However, such approaches do not leverage computational and storage resources from the swarm members.We address the optimization of a swarm-powered distributed 3D mapping mission for a real-life humanitarian emergency response application through the exploitation of a swarm-powered ad hoc cloud. Producing the relevant 3D maps in a timely manner, even when the cloud connectivity is not available, is crucial to increase the chances of success of the operation. In this work, we present a mathematical programming heuristic based on decomposition and a variable neighborhood search heuristic to minimize the completion time of the 3D reconstruction process necessary in such missions. Our computational results reveal that the proposed heuristics either quickly reach optimality or improve the best known solutions for almost all tested realistic instances comprising up to 1000 images and fifteen drones.

674
NeuralRecon: Real-Time Coherent 3D Reconstruction from Monocular Video
2021-04-01
We present a novel framework named NeuralRecon for real-time 3D scene reconstruction from a monocular video. Unlike previous methods that estimate single-view depth maps separately on each key-frame and fuse them later, we propose to directly reconstruct local surfaces represented as sparse TSDF volumes for each video fragment sequentially by a neural network. A learning-based TSDF fusion module based on gated recurrent units is used to guide the network to fuse features from previous fragments. This design allows the network to capture local smoothness prior and global shape prior of 3D surfaces when sequentially reconstructing the surfaces, resulting in accurate, coherent, and real-time surface reconstruction. The experiments on ScanNet and 7-Scenes datasets show that our system outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of both accuracy and speed. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first learning-based system that is able to reconstruct dense coherent 3D geometry in real-time.

682
Data-Driven 3D Reconstruction of Dressed Humans From Sparse Views
2021-04-16
Recently, data-driven single-view reconstruction methods have shown great progress in modeling 3D dressed humans. However, such methods suffer heavily from depth ambiguities and occlusions inherent to single view inputs. In this paper, we tackle this problem by considering a small set of input views and investigate the best strategy to suitably exploit information from these views. We propose a data-driven end-to-end approach that reconstructs an implicit 3D representation of dressed humans from sparse camera views. Specifically, we introduce three key components: first a spatially consistent reconstruction that allows for arbitrary placement of the person in the input views using a perspective camera model; second an attention-based fusion layer that learns to aggregate visual information from several viewpoints; and third a mechanism that encodes local 3D patterns under the multi-view context. In the experiments, we show the proposed approach outperforms the state of the art on standard data both quantitatively and qualitatively. To demonstrate the spatially consistent reconstruction, we apply our approach to dynamic scenes. Additionally, we apply our method on real data acquired with a multi-camera platform and demonstrate our approach can obtain results comparable to multi-view stereo with dramatically less views.

690
Robust joint registration of multiple stains and MRI for multimodal 3D histology reconstruction: Application to the Allen human brain atlas
2021-04-30
Joint registration of a stack of 2D histological sections to recover 3D structure (``3D histology reconstruction'') finds application in areas such as atlas building and validation of \emph{in vivo} imaging. Straightforward pairwise registration of neighbouring sections yields smooth reconstructions but has well-known problems such as ``banana effect'' (straightening of curved structures) and ``z-shift'' (drift). While these problems can be alleviated with an external, linearly aligned reference (e.g., Magnetic Resonance (MR) images), registration is often inaccurate due to contrast differences and the strong nonlinear distortion of the tissue, including artefacts such as folds and tears. In this paper, we present a probabilistic model of spatial deformation that yields reconstructions for multiple histological stains that that are jointly smooth, robust to outliers, and follow the reference shape. The model relies on a spanning tree of latent transforms connecting all the sections and slices of the reference volume, and assumes that the registration between any pair of images can be see as a noisy version of the composition of (possibly inverted) latent transforms connecting the two images. Bayesian inference is used to compute the most likely latent transforms given a set of pairwise registrations between image pairs within and across modalities. The framework is used for accurate 3D reconstruction of two stains (Nissl and parvalbumin) from the Allen human brain atlas, showing its benefits on real data with severe distortions. Moreover, we also provide the registration of the reconstructed volume to MNI space, bridging the gaps between two of the most widely used atlases in histology and MRI. The 3D reconstructed volumes and atlas registration can be downloaded from https://openneuro.org/datasets/ds003590. The code is freely available at https://github.com/acasamitjana/3dhirest.

698
Shape As Points: A Differentiable Poisson Solver
2021-06-07
In recent years, neural implicit representations gained popularity in 3D reconstruction due to their expressiveness and flexibility. However, the implicit nature of neural implicit representations results in slow inference time and requires careful initialization. In this paper, we revisit the classic yet ubiquitous point cloud representation and introduce a differentiable point-to-mesh layer using a differentiable formulation of Poisson Surface Reconstruction (PSR) that allows for a GPU-accelerated fast solution of the indicator function given an oriented point cloud. The differentiable PSR layer allows us to efficiently and differentiably bridge the explicit 3D point representation with the 3D mesh via the implicit indicator field, enabling end-to-end optimization of surface reconstruction metrics such as Chamfer distance. This duality between points and meshes hence allows us to represent shapes as oriented point clouds, which are explicit, lightweight and expressive. Compared to neural implicit representations, our Shape-As-Points (SAP) model is more interpretable, lightweight, and accelerates inference time by one order of magnitude. Compared to other explicit representations such as points, patches, and meshes, SAP produces topology-agnostic, watertight manifold surfaces. We demonstrate the effectiveness of SAP on the task of surface reconstruction from unoriented point clouds and learning-based reconstruction.

711
Kimera-Multi: Robust, Distributed, Dense Metric-Semantic SLAM for Multi-Robot Systems
2021-06-28
This paper presents Kimera-Multi, the first multi-robot system that (i) is robust and capable of identifying and rejecting incorrect inter and intra-robot loop closures resulting from perceptual aliasing, (ii) is fully distributed and only relies on local (peer-to-peer) communication to achieve distributed localization and mapping, and (iii) builds a globally consistent metric-semantic 3D mesh model of the environment in real-time, where faces of the mesh are annotated with semantic labels. Kimera-Multi is implemented by a team of robots equipped with visual-inertial sensors. Each robot builds a local trajectory estimate and a local mesh using Kimera. When communication is available, robots initiate a distributed place recognition and robust pose graph optimization protocol based on a novel distributed graduated non-convexity algorithm. The proposed protocol allows the robots to improve their local trajectory estimates by leveraging inter-robot loop closures while being robust to outliers. Finally, each robot uses its improved trajectory estimate to correct the local mesh using mesh deformation techniques. We demonstrate Kimera-Multi in photo-realistic simulations, SLAM benchmarking datasets, and challenging outdoor datasets collected using ground robots. Both real and simulated experiments involve long trajectories (e.g., up to 800 meters per robot). The experiments show that Kimera-Multi (i) outperforms the state of the art in terms of robustness and accuracy, (ii) achieves estimation errors comparable to a centralized SLAM system while being fully distributed, (iii) is parsimonious in terms of communication bandwidth, (iv) produces accurate metric-semantic 3D meshes, and (v) is modular and can be also used for standard 3D reconstruction (i.e., without semantic labels) or for trajectory estimation (i.e., without reconstructing a 3D mesh).

729
Cumulative Assessment for Urban 3D Modeling
2021-07-09
Urban 3D modeling from satellite images requires accurate semantic segmentation to delineate urban features, multiple view stereo for 3D reconstruction of surface heights, and 3D model fitting to produce compact models with accurate surface slopes. In this work, we present a cumulative assessment metric that succinctly captures error contributions from each of these components. We demonstrate our approach by providing challenging public datasets and extending two open source projects to provide an end-to-end 3D modeling baseline solution to stimulate further research and evaluation with a public leaderboard.

740
AA-RMVSNet: Adaptive Aggregation Recurrent Multi-view Stereo Network
2021-08-09
In this paper, we present a novel recurrent multi-view stereo network based on long short-term memory (LSTM) with adaptive aggregation, namely AA-RMVSNet. We firstly introduce an intra-view aggregation module to adaptively extract image features by using context-aware convolution and multi-scale aggregation, which efficiently improves the performance on challenging regions, such as thin objects and large low-textured surfaces. To overcome the difficulty of varying occlusion in complex scenes, we propose an inter-view cost volume aggregation module for adaptive pixel-wise view aggregation, which is able to preserve better-matched pairs among all views. The two proposed adaptive aggregation modules are lightweight, effective and complementary regarding improving the accuracy and completeness of 3D reconstruction. Instead of conventional 3D CNNs, we utilize a hybrid network with recurrent structure for cost volume regularization, which allows high-resolution reconstruction and finer hypothetical plane sweep. The proposed network is trained end-to-end and achieves excellent performance on various datasets. It ranks $1^{st}$ among all submissions on Tanks and Temples benchmark and achieves competitive results on DTU dataset, which exhibits strong generalizability and robustness. Implementation of our method is available at https://github.com/QT-Zhu/AA-RMVSNet.

741
A Real-Time Online Learning Framework for Joint 3D Reconstruction and Semantic Segmentation of Indoor Scenes
2021-08-11
This paper presents a real-time online vision framework to jointly recover an indoor scene's 3D structure and semantic label. Given noisy depth maps, a camera trajectory, and 2D semantic labels at train time, the proposed deep neural network based approach learns to fuse the depth over frames with suitable semantic labels in the scene space. Our approach exploits the joint volumetric representation of the depth and semantics in the scene feature space to solve this task. For a compelling online fusion of the semantic labels and geometry in real-time, we introduce an efficient vortex pooling block while dropping the use of routing network in online depth fusion to preserve high-frequency surface details. We show that the context information provided by the semantics of the scene helps the depth fusion network learn noise-resistant features. Not only that, it helps overcome the shortcomings of the current online depth fusion method in dealing with thin object structures, thickening artifacts, and false surfaces. Experimental evaluation on the Replica dataset shows that our approach can perform depth fusion at 37 and 10 frames per second with an average reconstruction F-score of 88% and 91%, respectively, depending on the depth map resolution. Moreover, our model shows an average IoU score of 0.515 on the ScanNet 3D semantic benchmark leaderboard.

778
EPP-MVSNet: Epipolar-Assembling Based Depth Prediction for Multi-View Stereo
2021-01-01
    In this paper, we proposed EPP-MVSNet, a novel deep learning network for 3D reconstruction from multi-view stereo (MVS). EPP-MVSNet can accurately aggregate features at high resolution to a limited cost volume with an optimal depth range, thus, leads to effective and efficient 3D construction. Distinct from existing works which measure feature cost at discrete positions which affects the 3D reconstruction accuracy, EPP-MVSNet introduces an epipolar assembling-based kernel that operates on adaptive intervals along epipolar lines for making full use of the image resolution. Further, we introduce an entropy-based refining strategy where the cost volume describes the space geometry with the little redundancy. Moreover, we design a light-weighted network with Pseudo-3D convolutions integrated to achieve high accuracy and efficiency. We have conducted extensive experiments on challenging datasets Tanks & Temples(TNT), ETH3D and DTU. As a result, we achieve promising results on all datasets and the highest F-Score on the online TNT intermediate benchmark. Code is available at https://gitee.com/mindspore/mindspore/tree/master/model_zoo/research/cv/eppmvsnet.    

789
Camera Calibration through Camera Projection Loss
2021-10-07
Camera calibration is a necessity in various tasks including 3D reconstruction, hand-eye coordination for a robotic interaction, autonomous driving, etc. In this work we propose a novel method to predict extrinsic (baseline, pitch, and translation), intrinsic (focal length and principal point offset) parameters using an image pair. Unlike existing methods, instead of designing an end-to-end solution, we proposed a new representation that incorporates camera model equations as a neural network in multi-task learning framework. We estimate the desired parameters via novel camera projection loss (CPL) that uses the camera model neural network to reconstruct the 3D points and uses the reconstruction loss to estimate the camera parameters. To the best of our knowledge, ours is the first method to jointly estimate both the intrinsic and extrinsic parameters via a multi-task learning methodology that combines analytical equations in learning framework for the estimation of camera parameters. We also proposed a novel dataset using CARLA Simulator. Empirically, we demonstrate that our proposed approach achieves better performance with respect to both deep learning-based and traditional methods on 8 out of 10 parameters evaluated using both synthetic and real data. Our code and generated dataset are available at https://github.com/thanif/Camera-Calibration-through-Camera-Projection-Loss.

795
NeRS: Neural Reflectance Surfaces for Sparse-view 3D Reconstruction in the Wild
2021-10-14
Recent history has seen a tremendous growth of work exploring implicit representations of geometry and radiance, popularized through Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF). Such works are fundamentally based on a (implicit) volumetric representation of occupancy, allowing them to model diverse scene structure including translucent objects and atmospheric obscurants. But because the vast majority of real-world scenes are composed of well-defined surfaces, we introduce a surface analog of such implicit models called Neural Reflectance Surfaces (NeRS). NeRS learns a neural shape representation of a closed surface that is diffeomorphic to a sphere, guaranteeing water-tight reconstructions. Even more importantly, surface parameterizations allow NeRS to learn (neural) bidirectional surface reflectance functions (BRDFs) that factorize view-dependent appearance into environmental illumination, diffuse color (albedo), and specular "shininess." Finally, rather than illustrating our results on synthetic scenes or controlled in-the-lab capture, we assemble a novel dataset of multi-view images from online marketplaces for selling goods. Such "in-the-wild" multi-view image sets pose a number of challenges, including a small number of views with unknown/rough camera estimates. We demonstrate that surface-based neural reconstructions enable learning from such data, outperforming volumetric neural rendering-based reconstructions. We hope that NeRS serves as a first step toward building scalable, high-quality libraries of real-world shape, materials, and illumination. The project page with code and video visualizations can be found at https://jasonyzhang.com/ners.

797
NeuralBlox: Real-Time Neural Representation Fusion for Robust Volumetric Mapping
2021-10-18
We present a novel 3D mapping method leveraging the recent progress in neural implicit representation for 3D reconstruction. Most existing state-of-the-art neural implicit representation methods are limited to object-level reconstructions and can not incrementally perform updates given new data. In this work, we propose a fusion strategy and training pipeline to incrementally build and update neural implicit representations that enable the reconstruction of large scenes from sequential partial observations. By representing an arbitrarily sized scene as a grid of latent codes and performing updates directly in latent space, we show that incrementally built occupancy maps can be obtained in real-time even on a CPU. Compared to traditional approaches such as Truncated Signed Distance Fields (TSDFs), our map representation is significantly more robust in yielding a better scene completeness given noisy inputs. We demonstrate the performance of our approach in thorough experimental validation on real-world datasets with varying degrees of added pose noise.

798
3D-RETR: End-to-End Single and Multi-View 3D Reconstruction with Transformers
2021-10-17
3D reconstruction aims to reconstruct 3D objects from 2D views. Previous works for 3D reconstruction mainly focus on feature matching between views or using CNNs as backbones. Recently, Transformers have been shown effective in multiple applications of computer vision. However, whether or not Transformers can be used for 3D reconstruction is still unclear. In this paper, we fill this gap by proposing 3D-RETR, which is able to perform end-to-end 3D REconstruction with TRansformers. 3D-RETR first uses a pretrained Transformer to extract visual features from 2D input images. 3D-RETR then uses another Transformer Decoder to obtain the voxel features. A CNN Decoder then takes as input the voxel features to obtain the reconstructed objects. 3D-RETR is capable of 3D reconstruction from a single view or multiple views. Experimental results on two datasets show that 3DRETR reaches state-of-the-art performance on 3D reconstruction. Additional ablation study also demonstrates that 3D-DETR benefits from using Transformers.

811
TANDEM: Tracking and Dense Mapping in Real-time using Deep Multi-view Stereo
2021-11-14
In this paper, we present TANDEM a real-time monocular tracking and dense mapping framework. For pose estimation, TANDEM performs photometric bundle adjustment based on a sliding window of keyframes. To increase the robustness, we propose a novel tracking front-end that performs dense direct image alignment using depth maps rendered from a global model that is built incrementally from dense depth predictions. To predict the dense depth maps, we propose Cascade View-Aggregation MVSNet (CVA-MVSNet) that utilizes the entire active keyframe window by hierarchically constructing 3D cost volumes with adaptive view aggregation to balance the different stereo baselines between the keyframes. Finally, the predicted depth maps are fused into a consistent global map represented as a truncated signed distance function (TSDF) voxel grid. Our experimental results show that TANDEM outperforms other state-of-the-art traditional and learning-based monocular visual odometry (VO) methods in terms of camera tracking. Moreover, TANDEM shows state-of-the-art real-time 3D reconstruction performance.

831
VoRTX: Volumetric 3D Reconstruction With Transformers for Voxelwise View Selection and Fusion
2021-12-01
Recent volumetric 3D reconstruction methods can produce very accurate results, with plausible geometry even for unobserved surfaces. However, they face an undesirable trade-off when it comes to multi-view fusion. They can fuse all available view information by global averaging, thus losing fine detail, or they can heuristically cluster views for local fusion, thus restricting their ability to consider all views jointly. Our key insight is that greater detail can be retained without restricting view diversity by learning a view-fusion function conditioned on camera pose and image content. We propose to learn this multi-view fusion using a transformer. To this end, we introduce VoRTX, an end-to-end volumetric 3D reconstruction network using transformers for wide-baseline, multi-view feature fusion. Our model is occlusion-aware, leveraging the transformer architecture to predict an initial, projective scene geometry estimate. This estimate is used to avoid backprojecting image features through surfaces into occluded regions. We train our model on ScanNet and show that it produces better reconstructions than state-of-the-art methods. We also demonstrate generalization without any fine-tuning, outperforming the same state-of-the-art methods on two other datasets, TUM-RGBD and ICL-NUIM.

869
Unsupervised Single-shot Depth Estimation using Perceptual Reconstruction
2022-01-28
Real-time estimation of actual object depth is an essential module for various autonomous system tasks such as 3D reconstruction, scene understanding and condition assessment. During the last decade of machine learning, extensive deployment of deep learning methods to computer vision tasks has yielded approaches that succeed in achieving realistic depth synthesis out of a simple RGB modality. Most of these models are based on paired RGB-depth data and/or the availability of video sequences and stereo images. The lack of sequences, stereo data and RGB-depth pairs makes depth estimation a fully unsupervised single-image transfer problem that has barely been explored so far. This study builds on recent advances in the field of generative neural networks in order to establish fully unsupervised single-shot depth estimation. Two generators for RGB-to-depth and depth-to-RGB transfer are implemented and simultaneously optimized using the Wasserstein-1 distance, a novel perceptual reconstruction term and hand-crafted image filters. We comprehensively evaluate the models using industrial surface depth data as well as the Texas 3D Face Recognition Database, the CelebAMask-HQ database of human portraits and the SURREAL dataset that records body depth. For each evaluation dataset the proposed method shows a significant increase in depth accuracy compared to state-of-the-art single-image transfer methods.

886
Sketched RT3D: How to reconstruct billions of photons per second
2022-03-02
Single-photon light detection and ranging (lidar) captures depth and intensity information of a 3D scene. Reconstructing a scene from observed photons is a challenging task due to spurious detections associated with background illumination sources. To tackle this problem, there is a plethora of 3D reconstruction algorithms which exploit spatial regularity of natural scenes to provide stable reconstructions. However, most existing algorithms have computational and memory complexity proportional to the number of recorded photons. This complexity hinders their real-time deployment on modern lidar arrays which acquire billions of photons per second. Leveraging a recent lidar sketching framework, we show that it is possible to modify existing reconstruction algorithms such that they only require a small sketch of the photon information. In particular, we propose a sketched version of a recent state-of-the-art algorithm which uses point cloud denoisers to provide spatially regularized reconstructions. A series of experiments performed on real lidar datasets demonstrates a significant reduction of execution time and memory requirements, while achieving the same reconstruction performance than in the full data case.

888
CenterSnap: Single-Shot Multi-Object 3D Shape Reconstruction and Categorical 6D Pose and Size Estimation
2022-03-03
This paper studies the complex task of simultaneous multi-object 3D reconstruction, 6D pose and size estimation from a single-view RGB-D observation. In contrast to instance-level pose estimation, we focus on a more challenging problem where CAD models are not available at inference time. Existing approaches mainly follow a complex multi-stage pipeline which first localizes and detects each object instance in the image and then regresses to either their 3D meshes or 6D poses. These approaches suffer from high-computational cost and low performance in complex multi-object scenarios, where occlusions can be present. Hence, we present a simple one-stage approach to predict both the 3D shape and estimate the 6D pose and size jointly in a bounding-box free manner. In particular, our method treats object instances as spatial centers where each center denotes the complete shape of an object along with its 6D pose and size. Through this per-pixel representation, our approach can reconstruct in real-time (40 FPS) multiple novel object instances and predict their 6D pose and sizes in a single-forward pass. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that our approach significantly outperforms all shape completion and categorical 6D pose and size estimation baselines on multi-object ShapeNet and NOCS datasets respectively with a 12.6% absolute improvement in mAP for 6D pose for novel real-world object instances.

896
OcclusionFusion: Occlusion-aware Motion Estimation for Real-time Dynamic 3D Reconstruction
2022-03-15
RGBD-based real-time dynamic 3D reconstruction suffers from inaccurate inter-frame motion estimation as errors may accumulate with online tracking. This problem is even more severe for single-view-based systems due to strong occlusions. Based on these observations, we propose OcclusionFusion, a novel method to calculate occlusion-aware 3D motion to guide the reconstruction. In our technique, the motion of visible regions is first estimated and combined with temporal information to infer the motion of the occluded regions through an LSTM-involved graph neural network. Furthermore, our method computes the confidence of the estimated motion by modeling the network output with a probabilistic model, which alleviates untrustworthy motions and enables robust tracking. Experimental results on public datasets and our own recorded data show that our technique outperforms existing single-view-based real-time methods by a large margin. With the reduction of the motion errors, the proposed technique can handle long and challenging motion sequences. Please check out the project page for sequence results: https://wenbin-lin.github.io/OcclusionFusion.

911
Online panoptic 3D reconstruction as a Linear Assignment Problem
2022-04-01
Real-time holistic scene understanding would allow machines to interpret their surrounding in a much more detailed manner than is currently possible. While panoptic image segmentation methods have brought image segmentation closer to this goal, this information has to be described relative to the 3D environment for the machine to be able to utilise it effectively. In this paper, we investigate methods for sequentially reconstructing static environments from panoptic image segmentations in 3D. We specifically target real-time operation: the algorithm must process data strictly online and be able to run at relatively fast frame rates. Additionally, the method should be scalable for environments large enough for practical applications. By applying a simple but powerful data-association algorithm, we outperform earlier similar works when operating purely online. Our method is also capable of reaching frame-rates high enough for real-time applications and is scalable to larger environments as well. Source code and further demonstrations are released to the public at: \url{https://tutvision.github.io/Online-Panoptic-3D/}

915
Learning Online Multi-Sensor Depth Fusion
2022-04-07
Many hand-held or mixed reality devices are used with a single sensor for 3D reconstruction, although they often comprise multiple sensors. Multi-sensor depth fusion is able to substantially improve the robustness and accuracy of 3D reconstruction methods, but existing techniques are not robust enough to handle sensors which operate with diverse value ranges as well as noise and outlier statistics. To this end, we introduce SenFuNet, a depth fusion approach that learns sensor-specific noise and outlier statistics and combines the data streams of depth frames from different sensors in an online fashion. Our method fuses multi-sensor depth streams regardless of time synchronization and calibration and generalizes well with little training data. We conduct experiments with various sensor combinations on the real-world CoRBS and Scene3D datasets, as well as the Replica dataset. Experiments demonstrate that our fusion strategy outperforms traditional and recent online depth fusion approaches. In addition, the combination of multiple sensors yields more robust outlier handling and more precise surface reconstruction than the use of a single sensor. The source code and data are available at https://github.com/tfy14esa/SenFuNet.

924
Share With Thy Neighbors: Single-View Reconstruction by Cross-Instance Consistency
2022-04-21
Approaches for single-view reconstruction typically rely on viewpoint annotations, silhouettes, the absence of background, multiple views of the same instance, a template shape, or symmetry. We avoid all such supervision and assumptions by explicitly leveraging the consistency between images of different object instances. As a result, our method can learn from large collections of unlabelled images depicting the same object category. Our main contributions are two ways for leveraging cross-instance consistency: (i) progressive conditioning, a training strategy to gradually specialize the model from category to instances in a curriculum learning fashion; and (ii) neighbor reconstruction, a loss enforcing consistency between instances having similar shape or texture. Also critical to the success of our method are: our structured autoencoding architecture decomposing an image into explicit shape, texture, pose, and background; an adapted formulation of differential rendering; and a new optimization scheme alternating between 3D and pose learning. We compare our approach, UNICORN, both on the diverse synthetic ShapeNet dataset - the classical benchmark for methods requiring multiple views as supervision - and on standard real-image benchmarks (Pascal3D+ Car, CUB) for which most methods require known templates and silhouette annotations. We also showcase applicability to more challenging real-world collections (CompCars, LSUN), where silhouettes are not available and images are not cropped around the object.

941
Topologically-Aware Deformation Fields for Single-View 3D Reconstruction
2022-05-12
We present a framework for learning 3D object shapes and dense cross-object 3D correspondences from just an unaligned category-specific image collection. The 3D shapes are generated implicitly as deformations to a category-specific signed distance field and are learned in an unsupervised manner solely from unaligned image collections and their poses without any 3D supervision. Generally, image collections on the internet contain several intra-category geometric and topological variations, for example, different chairs can have different topologies, which makes the task of joint shape and correspondence estimation much more challenging. Because of this, prior works either focus on learning each 3D object shape individually without modeling cross-instance correspondences or perform joint shape and correspondence estimation on categories with minimal intra-category topological variations. We overcome these restrictions by learning a topologically-aware implicit deformation field that maps a 3D point in the object space to a higher dimensional point in the category-specific canonical space. At inference time, given a single image, we reconstruct the underlying 3D shape by first implicitly deforming each 3D point in the object space to the learned category-specific canonical space using the topologically-aware deformation field and then reconstructing the 3D shape as a canonical signed distance field. Both canonical shape and deformation field are learned end-to-end in an inverse-graphics fashion using a learned recurrent ray marcher (SRN) as a differentiable rendering module. Our approach, dubbed TARS, achieves state-of-the-art reconstruction fidelity on several datasets: ShapeNet, Pascal3D+, CUB, and Pix3D chairs. Result videos and code at https://shivamduggal4.github.io/tars-3D/

942
Quadtree-accelerated Real-time Monocular Dense Mapping
2018-10-05
In this paper, we propose a novel mapping method for robotic navigation. High-quality dense depth maps are estimated and fused into 3D reconstructions in real-time using a single localized moving camera. The quadtree structure of the intensity image is used to reduce the computation burden by estimating the depth map in multiple resolutions. Both the quadtree-based pixel selection and the dynamic belief propagation are proposed to speed up the mapping process: pixels are selected and optimized with the computation resource according to their levels in the quadtree. Solved depth estimations are further interpolated and fused temporally into full resolution depth maps and fused into dense 3D maps using truncated signed distance function (TSDF). We compare our method with other state-of-the-art methods using the public datasets. Onboard UAV autonomous flight is also used to further prove the usability and efficiency of our method on portable devices. For the benefit of the community, the implementation is also released as open source at https://github.com/HKUST-Aerial-Robotics/open_quadtree_mapping.

993
Cost Volume Pyramid Network with Multi-strategies Range Searching for Multi-view Stereo
2022-07-25
Multi-view stereo is an important research task in computer vision while still keeping challenging. In recent years, deep learning-based methods have shown superior performance on this task. Cost volume pyramid network-based methods which progressively refine depth map in coarse-to-fine manner, have yielded promising results while consuming less memory. However, these methods fail to take fully consideration of the characteristics of the cost volumes in each stage, leading to adopt similar range search strategies for each cost volume stage. In this work, we present a novel cost volume pyramid based network with different searching strategies for multi-view stereo. By choosing different depth range sampling strategies and applying adaptive unimodal filtering, we are able to obtain more accurate depth estimation in low resolution stages and iteratively upsample depth map to arbitrary resolution. We conducted extensive experiments on both DTU and BlendedMVS datasets, and results show that our method outperforms most state-of-the-art methods.

1011
Fast Auto-Differentiable Digitally Reconstructed Radiographs for Solving Inverse Problems in Intraoperative Imaging
2022-08-26
The use of digitally reconstructed radiographs (DRRs) to solve inverse problems such as slice-to-volume registration and 3D reconstruction is well-studied in preoperative settings. In intraoperative imaging, the utility of DRRs is limited by the challenges in generating them in real-time and supporting optimization procedures that rely on repeated DRR synthesis. While immense progress has been made in accelerating the generation of DRRs through algorithmic refinements and GPU implementations, DRR-based optimization remains slow because most DRR generators do not offer a straightforward way to obtain gradients with respect to the imaging parameters. To make DRRs interoperable with gradient-based optimization and deep learning frameworks, we have reformulated Siddon's method, the most popular ray-tracing algorithm used in DRR generation, as a series of vectorized tensor operations. We implemented this vectorized version of Siddon's method in PyTorch, taking advantage of the library's strong automatic differentiation engine to make this DRR generator fully differentiable with respect to its parameters. Additionally, using GPU-accelerated tensor computation enables our vectorized implementation to achieve rendering speeds equivalent to state-of-the-art DRR generators implemented in CUDA and C++. We illustrate the resulting method in the context of slice-to-volume registration. Moreover, our simulations suggest that the loss landscapes for the slice-to-volume registration problem are convex in the neighborhood of the optimal solution, and gradient-based registration promises a much faster solution than prevailing gradient-free optimization strategies. The proposed DRR generator enables fast computer vision algorithms to support image guidance in minimally invasive procedures. Our implementation is publically available at https://github.com/v715/DiffDRR.

1012
SimpleRecon: 3D Reconstruction Without 3D Convolutions
2022-08-31
Traditionally, 3D indoor scene reconstruction from posed images happens in two phases: per-image depth estimation, followed by depth merging and surface reconstruction. Recently, a family of methods have emerged that perform reconstruction directly in final 3D volumetric feature space. While these methods have shown impressive reconstruction results, they rely on expensive 3D convolutional layers, limiting their application in resource-constrained environments. In this work, we instead go back to the traditional route, and show how focusing on high quality multi-view depth prediction leads to highly accurate 3D reconstructions using simple off-the-shelf depth fusion. We propose a simple state-of-the-art multi-view depth estimator with two main contributions: 1) a carefully-designed 2D CNN which utilizes strong image priors alongside a plane-sweep feature volume and geometric losses, combined with 2) the integration of keyframe and geometric metadata into the cost volume which allows informed depth plane scoring. Our method achieves a significant lead over the current state-of-the-art for depth estimation and close or better for 3D reconstruction on ScanNet and 7-Scenes, yet still allows for online real-time low-memory reconstruction. Code, models and results are available at https://nianticlabs.github.io/simplerecon

1066
Shape, Pose, and Appearance from a Single Image via Bootstrapped Radiance Field Inversion
2022-11-21
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) coupled with GANs represent a promising direction in the area of 3D reconstruction from a single view, owing to their ability to efficiently model arbitrary topologies. Recent work in this area, however, has mostly focused on synthetic datasets where exact ground-truth poses are known, and has overlooked pose estimation, which is important for certain downstream applications such as augmented reality (AR) and robotics. We introduce a principled end-to-end reconstruction framework for natural images, where accurate ground-truth poses are not available. Our approach recovers an SDF-parameterized 3D shape, pose, and appearance from a single image of an object, without exploiting multiple views during training. More specifically, we leverage an unconditional 3D-aware generator, to which we apply a hybrid inversion scheme where a model produces a first guess of the solution which is then refined via optimization. Our framework can de-render an image in as few as 10 steps, enabling its use in practical scenarios. We demonstrate state-of-the-art results on a variety of real and synthetic benchmarks.

1083
One is All: Bridging the Gap Between Neural Radiance Fields Architectures with Progressive Volume Distillation
2022-11-29
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) methods have proved effective as compact, high-quality and versatile representations for 3D scenes, and enable downstream tasks such as editing, retrieval, navigation, etc. Various neural architectures are vying for the core structure of NeRF, including the plain Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP), sparse tensors, low-rank tensors, hashtables and their compositions. Each of these representations has its particular set of trade-offs. For example, the hashtable-based representations admit faster training and rendering but their lack of clear geometric meaning hampers downstream tasks like spatial-relation-aware editing. In this paper, we propose Progressive Volume Distillation (PVD), a systematic distillation method that allows any-to-any conversions between different architectures, including MLP, sparse or low-rank tensors, hashtables and their compositions. PVD consequently empowers downstream applications to optimally adapt the neural representations for the task at hand in a post hoc fashion. The conversions are fast, as distillation is progressively performed on different levels of volume representations, from shallower to deeper. We also employ special treatment of density to deal with its specific numerical instability problem. Empirical evidence is presented to validate our method on the NeRF-Synthetic, LLFF and TanksAndTemples datasets. For example, with PVD, an MLP-based NeRF model can be distilled from a hashtable-based Instant-NGP model at a 10X~20X faster speed than being trained the original NeRF from scratch, while achieving a superior level of synthesis quality. Code is available at https://github.com/megvii-research/AAAI2023-PVD.

1086
PatchMatch-Stereo-Panorama, a fast dense reconstruction from 360° video images
2022-11-29
This work proposes a new method for real-time dense 3d reconstruction for common 360{\deg} action cams, which can be mounted on small scouting UAVs during USAR missions. The proposed method extends a feature based Visual monocular SLAM (OpenVSLAM, based on the popular ORB-SLAM) for robust long-term localization on equirectangular video input by adding an additional densification thread that computes dense correspondences for any given keyframe with respect to a local keyframe-neighboorhood using a PatchMatch-Stereo-approach. While PatchMatch-Stereo-types of algorithms are considered state of the art for large scale Mutli-View-Stereo they had not been adapted so far for real-time dense 3d reconstruction tasks. This work describes a new massively parallel variant of the PatchMatch-Stereo-algorithm that differs from current approaches in two ways: First it supports the equirectangular camera model while other solutions are limited to the pinhole camera model. Second it is optimized for low latency while keeping a high level of completeness and accuracy. To achieve this it operates only on small sequences of keyframes, but employs techniques to compensate for the potential loss of accuracy due to the limited number of frames. Results demonstrate that dense 3d reconstruction is possible on a consumer grade laptop with a recent mobile GPU and that it is possible with improved accuracy and completeness over common offline-MVS solutions with comparable quality settings.

1094
Fast and Lightweight Scene Regressor for Camera Relocalization
2022-12-04
Camera relocalization involving a prior 3D reconstruction plays a crucial role in many mixed reality and robotics applications. Estimating the camera pose directly with respect to pre-built 3D models can be prohibitively expensive for several applications with limited storage and/or communication bandwidth. Although recent scene and absolute pose regression methods have become popular for efficient camera localization, most of them are computation-resource intensive and difficult to obtain a real-time inference with high accuracy constraints. This study proposes a simple scene regression method that requires only a multi-layer perceptron network for mapping scene coordinates to achieve accurate camera pose estimations. The proposed approach uses sparse descriptors to regress the scene coordinates, instead of a dense RGB image. The use of sparse features provides several advantages. First, the proposed regressor network is substantially smaller than those reported in previous studies. This makes our system highly efficient and scalable. Second, the pre-built 3D models provide the most reliable and robust 2D-3D matches. Therefore, learning from them can lead to an awareness of equivalent features and substantially improve the generalization performance. A detailed analysis of our approach and extensive evaluations using existing datasets are provided to support the proposed method. The implementation detail is available at https://github.com/aislab/feat2map

1116
Towards a Pipeline for Real-Time Visualization of Faces for VR-based Telepresence and Live Broadcasting Utilizing Neural Rendering
2023-01-04
While head-mounted displays (HMDs) for Virtual Reality (VR) have become widely available in the consumer market, they pose a considerable obstacle for a realistic face-to-face conversation in VR since HMDs hide a significant portion of the participants faces. Even with image streams from cameras directly attached to an HMD, stitching together a convincing image of an entire face remains a challenging task because of extreme capture angles and strong lens distortions due to a wide field of view. Compared to the long line of research in VR, reconstruction of faces hidden beneath an HMD is a very recent topic of research. While the current state-of-the-art solutions demonstrate photo-realistic 3D reconstruction results, they require high-cost laboratory equipment and large computational costs. We present an approach that focuses on low-cost hardware and can be used on a commodity gaming computer with a single GPU. We leverage the benefits of an end-to-end pipeline by means of Generative Adversarial Networks (GAN). Our GAN produces a frontal-facing 2.5D point cloud based on a training dataset captured with an RGBD camera. In our approach, the training process is offline, while the reconstruction runs in real-time. Our results show adequate reconstruction quality within the 'learned' expressions. Expressions not learned by the network produce artifacts and can trigger the Uncanny Valley effect.

1128
Mono-STAR: Mono-camera Scene-level Tracking and Reconstruction
2023-01-30
We present Mono-STAR, the first real-time 3D reconstruction system that simultaneously supports semantic fusion, fast motion tracking, non-rigid object deformation, and topological change under a unified framework. The proposed system solves a new optimization problem incorporating optical-flow-based 2D constraints to deal with fast motion and a novel semantic-aware deformation graph (SAD-graph) for handling topology change. We test the proposed system under various challenging scenes and demonstrate that it significantly outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods.

1154
FastSurf: Fast Neural RGB-D Surface Reconstruction using Per-Frame Intrinsic Refinement and TSDF Fusion Prior Learning
2023-03-08
We introduce FastSurf, an accelerated neural radiance field (NeRF) framework that incorporates depth information for 3D reconstruction. A dense feature grid and shallow multi-layer perceptron are used for fast and accurate surface optimization of the entire scene. Our per-frame intrinsic refinement scheme corrects the frame-specific errors that cannot be handled by global optimization. Furthermore, FastSurf utilizes a classical real-time 3D surface reconstruction method, the truncated signed distance field (TSDF) Fusion, as prior knowledge to pretrain the feature grid to accelerate the training. The quantitative and qualitative experiments comparing the performances of FastSurf against prior work indicate that our method is capable of quickly and accurately reconstructing a scene with high-frequency details. We also demonstrate the effectiveness of our per-frame intrinsic refinement and TSDF Fusion prior learning techniques via an ablation study.

1156
ACR: Attention Collaboration-based Regressor for Arbitrary Two-Hand Reconstruction
2023-03-10
Reconstructing two hands from monocular RGB images is challenging due to frequent occlusion and mutual confusion. Existing methods mainly learn an entangled representation to encode two interacting hands, which are incredibly fragile to impaired interaction, such as truncated hands, separate hands, or external occlusion. This paper presents ACR (Attention Collaboration-based Regressor), which makes the first attempt to reconstruct hands in arbitrary scenarios. To achieve this, ACR explicitly mitigates interdependencies between hands and between parts by leveraging center and part-based attention for feature extraction. However, reducing interdependence helps release the input constraint while weakening the mutual reasoning about reconstructing the interacting hands. Thus, based on center attention, ACR also learns cross-hand prior that handle the interacting hands better. We evaluate our method on various types of hand reconstruction datasets. Our method significantly outperforms the best interacting-hand approaches on the InterHand2.6M dataset while yielding comparable performance with the state-of-the-art single-hand methods on the FreiHand dataset. More qualitative results on in-the-wild and hand-object interaction datasets and web images/videos further demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach for arbitrary hand reconstruction. Our code is available at https://github.com/ZhengdiYu/Arbitrary-Hands-3D-Reconstruction.

1164
Real-time volumetric rendering of dynamic humans
2023-03-21
We present a method for fast 3D reconstruction and real-time rendering of dynamic humans from monocular videos with accompanying parametric body fits. Our method can reconstruct a dynamic human in less than 3h using a single GPU, compared to recent state-of-the-art alternatives that take up to 72h. These speedups are obtained by using a lightweight deformation model solely based on linear blend skinning, and an efficient factorized volumetric representation for modeling the shape and color of the person in canonical pose. Moreover, we propose a novel local ray marching rendering which, by exploiting standard GPU hardware and without any baking or conversion of the radiance field, allows visualizing the neural human on a mobile VR device at 40 frames per second with minimal loss of visual quality. Our experimental evaluation shows superior or competitive results with state-of-the art methods while obtaining large training speedup, using a simple model, and achieving real-time rendering.

1167
BundleSDF: Neural 6-DoF Tracking and 3D Reconstruction of Unknown Objects
2023-03-24
We present a near real-time method for 6-DoF tracking of an unknown object from a monocular RGBD video sequence, while simultaneously performing neural 3D reconstruction of the object. Our method works for arbitrary rigid objects, even when visual texture is largely absent. The object is assumed to be segmented in the first frame only. No additional information is required, and no assumption is made about the interaction agent. Key to our method is a Neural Object Field that is learned concurrently with a pose graph optimization process in order to robustly accumulate information into a consistent 3D representation capturing both geometry and appearance. A dynamic pool of posed memory frames is automatically maintained to facilitate communication between these threads. Our approach handles challenging sequences with large pose changes, partial and full occlusion, untextured surfaces, and specular highlights. We show results on HO3D, YCBInEOAT, and BEHAVE datasets, demonstrating that our method significantly outperforms existing approaches. Project page: https://bundlesdf.github.io

1184
Real-Time Tilt Undersampling Optimization during Electron Tomography of Beam Sensitive Samples using Golden Ratio Scanning and RECAST3D
2023-04-01
Electron tomography is a widely used technique for 3D structural analysis of nanomaterials, but it can cause damage to samples due to high electron doses and long exposure times. To minimize such damage, researchers often reduce beam exposure by acquiring fewer projections through tilt undersampling. However, this approach can also introduce reconstruction artifacts due to insufficient sampling. Therefore, it is important to determine the optimal number of projections that minimizes both beam exposure and undersampling artifacts for accurate reconstructions of beam-sensitive samples. Current methods for determining this optimal number of projections involve acquiring and post-processing multiple reconstructions with different numbers of projections, which can be time-consuming and requires multiple samples due to sample damage. To improve this process, we propose a protocol that combines golden ratio scanning and quasi-3D reconstruction to estimate the optimal number of projections in real-time during a single acquisition. This protocol was validated using simulated and realistic nanoparticles, and was successfully applied to reconstruct two beam-sensitive metal-organic framework complexes.

1189
Real-Time Dense 3D Mapping of Underwater Environments
2023-04-05
This paper addresses real-time dense 3D reconstruction for a resource-constrained Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV). Underwater vision-guided operations are among the most challenging as they combine 3D motion in the presence of external forces, limited visibility, and absence of global positioning. Obstacle avoidance and effective path planning require online dense reconstructions of the environment. Autonomous operation is central to environmental monitoring, marine archaeology, resource utilization, and underwater cave exploration. To address this problem, we propose to use SVIn2, a robust VIO method, together with a real-time 3D reconstruction pipeline. We provide extensive evaluation on four challenging underwater datasets. Our pipeline produces comparable reconstruction with that of COLMAP, the state-of-the-art offline 3D reconstruction method, at high frame rates on a single CPU.

1194
PVD-AL: Progressive Volume Distillation with Active Learning for Efficient Conversion Between Different NeRF Architectures
2023-04-08
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have been widely adopted as practical and versatile representations for 3D scenes, facilitating various downstream tasks. However, different architectures, including plain Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP), Tensors, low-rank Tensors, Hashtables, and their compositions, have their trade-offs. For instance, Hashtables-based representations allow for faster rendering but lack clear geometric meaning, making spatial-relation-aware editing challenging. To address this limitation and maximize the potential of each architecture, we propose Progressive Volume Distillation with Active Learning (PVD-AL), a systematic distillation method that enables any-to-any conversions between different architectures. PVD-AL decomposes each structure into two parts and progressively performs distillation from shallower to deeper volume representation, leveraging effective information retrieved from the rendering process. Additionally, a Three-Levels of active learning technique provides continuous feedback during the distillation process, resulting in high-performance results. Empirical evidence is presented to validate our method on multiple benchmark datasets. For example, PVD-AL can distill an MLP-based model from a Hashtables-based model at a 10~20X faster speed and 0.8dB~2dB higher PSNR than training the NeRF model from scratch. Moreover, PVD-AL permits the fusion of diverse features among distinct structures, enabling models with multiple editing properties and providing a more efficient model to meet real-time requirements. Project website:http://sk-fun.fun/PVD-AL.

1199
Single-Stage Diffusion NeRF: A Unified Approach to 3D Generation and Reconstruction
2023-04-13
3D-aware image synthesis encompasses a variety of tasks, such as scene generation and novel view synthesis from images. Despite numerous task-specific methods, developing a comprehensive model remains challenging. In this paper, we present SSDNeRF, a unified approach that employs an expressive diffusion model to learn a generalizable prior of neural radiance fields (NeRF) from multi-view images of diverse objects. Previous studies have used two-stage approaches that rely on pretrained NeRFs as real data to train diffusion models. In contrast, we propose a new single-stage training paradigm with an end-to-end objective that jointly optimizes a NeRF auto-decoder and a latent diffusion model, enabling simultaneous 3D reconstruction and prior learning, even from sparsely available views. At test time, we can directly sample the diffusion prior for unconditional generation, or combine it with arbitrary observations of unseen objects for NeRF reconstruction. SSDNeRF demonstrates robust results comparable to or better than leading task-specific methods in unconditional generation and single/sparse-view 3D reconstruction.

1202
Temporally Consistent Online Depth Estimation Using Point-Based Fusion
2023-04-15
Depth estimation is an important step in many computer vision problems such as 3D reconstruction, novel view synthesis, and computational photography. Most existing work focuses on depth estimation from single frames. When applied to videos, the result lacks temporal consistency, showing flickering and swimming artifacts. In this paper we aim to estimate temporally consistent depth maps of video streams in an online setting. This is a difficult problem as future frames are not available and the method must choose between enforcing consistency and correcting errors from previous estimations. The presence of dynamic objects further complicates the problem. We propose to address these challenges by using a global point cloud that is dynamically updated each frame, along with a learned fusion approach in image space. Our approach encourages consistency while simultaneously allowing updates to handle errors and dynamic objects. Qualitative and quantitative results show that our method achieves state-of-the-art quality for consistent video depth estimation.

1232
Self-Supervised Super-Plane for Neural 3D Reconstruction
2023-01-01
    Neural implicit surface representation methods show impressive reconstruction results but struggle to handle texture-less planar regions that widely exist in indoor scenes. Existing approaches addressing this leverage image prior that requires assistive networks trained with large-scale annotated datasets. In this work, we introduce a self-supervised super-plane constraint by exploring the free geometry cues from the predicted surface, which can further regularize the reconstruction of plane regions without any other ground truth annotations. Specifically, we introduce an iterative training scheme, where (i) grouping of pixels to formulate a super-plane (analogous to super-pixels), and (ii) optimizing of the scene reconstruction network via a super-plane constraint, are progressively conducted. We demonstrate that the model trained with super-planes surprisingly outperforms the one using conventional annotated planes, as individual super-plane statistically occupies a larger area and leads to more stable training. Extensive experiments show that our self-supervised super-plane constraint significantly improves 3D reconstruction quality even better than using ground truth plane segmentation. Additionally, the plane reconstruction results from our model can be used for auto-labeling for other vision tasks. The code and models are available at https: //github.com/botaoye/S3PRecon.    

1237
GeoMVSNet: Learning Multi-View Stereo With Geometry Perception
2023-01-01
    Recent cascade Multi-View Stereo (MVS) methods can efficiently estimate high-resolution depth maps through narrowing hypothesis ranges. However, previous methods ignored the vital geometric information embedded in coarse stages, leading to vulnerable cost matching and sub-optimal reconstruction results. In this paper, we propose a geometry awareness model, termed GeoMVSNet, to explicitly integrate geometric clues implied in coarse stages for delicate depth estimation. In particular, we design a two-branch geometry fusion network to extract geometric priors from coarse estimations to enhance structural feature extraction at finer stages. Besides, we embed the coarse probability volumes, which encode valuable depth distribution attributes, into the lightweight regularization network to further strengthen depth-wise geometry intuition. Meanwhile, we apply the frequency domain filtering to mitigate the negative impact of the high-frequency regions and adopt the curriculum learning strategy to progressively boost the geometry integration of the model. To intensify the full-scene geometry perception of our model, we present the depth distribution similarity loss based on the Gaussian-Mixture Model assumption. Extensive experiments on DTU and Tanks and Temples (T&T) datasets demonstrate that our GeoMVSNet achieves state-of-the-art results and ranks first on the T&T-Advanced set. Code is available at https://github.com/doubleZ0108/GeoMVSNet.    

1266
SMART: Spatial Modeling Algorithms for Reaction and Transport
2023-06-12
Recent advances in microscopy and 3D reconstruction methods have allowed for characterization of cellular morphology in unprecedented detail, including the irregular geometries of intracellular subcompartments such as membrane-bound organelles. These geometries are now compatible with predictive modeling of cellular function. Biological cells respond to stimuli through sequences of chemical reactions generally referred to as cell signaling pathways. The propagation and reaction of chemical substances in cell signaling pathways can be represented by coupled nonlinear systems of reaction-transport equations. These reaction pathways include numerous chemical species that react across boundaries or interfaces (e.g., the cell membrane and membranes of organelles within the cell) and domains (e.g., the bulk cell volume and the interior of organelles). Such systems of multi-dimensional partial differential equations (PDEs) are notoriously difficult to solve because of their high dimensionality, non-linearities, strong coupling, stiffness, and potential instabilities. In this work, we describe Spatial Modeling Algorithms for Reactions and Transport (SMART), a high-performance finite-element-based simulation package for model specification and numerical simulation of spatially-varying reaction-transport processes. SMART is based on the FEniCS finite element library, provides a symbolic representation framework for specifying reaction pathways, and supports geometries in 2D and 3D including large and irregular cell geometries obtained from modern ultrastructural characterization methods.

1278
Bag of Views: An Appearance-based Approach to Next-Best-View Planning for 3D Reconstruction
2023-07-11
UAV-based intelligent data acquisition for 3D reconstruction and monitoring of infrastructure has been experiencing an increasing surge of interest due to the recent advancements in image processing and deep learning-based techniques. View planning is an essential part of this task that dictates the information capture strategy and heavily impacts the quality of the 3D model generated from the captured data. Recent methods have used prior knowledge or partial reconstruction of the target to accomplish view planning for active reconstruction; the former approach poses a challenge for complex or newly identified targets while the latter is computationally expensive. In this work, we present Bag-of-Views (BoV), a fully appearance-based model used to assign utility to the captured views for both offline dataset refinement and online next-best-view (NBV) planning applications targeting the task of 3D reconstruction. With this contribution, we also developed the View Planning Toolbox (VPT), a lightweight package for training and testing machine learning-based view planning frameworks, custom view dataset generation of arbitrary 3D scenes, and 3D reconstruction. Through experiments which pair a BoV-based reinforcement learning model with VPT, we demonstrate the efficacy of our model in reducing the number of required views for high-quality reconstructions in dataset refinement and NBV planning.

1279
Sequential Experimental Design for X-Ray CT Using Deep Reinforcement Learning
2023-07-12
In X-ray Computed Tomography (CT), projections from many angles are acquired and used for 3D reconstruction. To make CT suitable for in-line quality control, reducing the number of angles while maintaining reconstruction quality is necessary. Sparse-angle tomography is a popular approach for obtaining 3D reconstructions from limited data. To optimize its performance, one can adapt scan angles sequentially to select the most informative angles for each scanned object. Mathematically, this corresponds to solving and optimal experimental design (OED) problem. OED problems are high-dimensional, non-convex, bi-level optimization problems that cannot be solved online, i.e., during the scan. To address these challenges, we pose the OED problem as a partially observable Markov decision process in a Bayesian framework, and solve it through deep reinforcement learning. The approach learns efficient non-greedy policies to solve a given class of OED problems through extensive offline training rather than solving a given OED problem directly via numerical optimization. As such, the trained policy can successfully find the most informative scan angles online. We use a policy training method based on the Actor-Critic approach and evaluate its performance on 2D tomography with synthetic data.

