8
DeepV2D: Video to Depth with Differentiable Structure from Motion
2018-12-11
We propose DeepV2D, an end-to-end deep learning architecture for predicting depth from video. DeepV2D combines the representation ability of neural networks with the geometric principles governing image formation. We compose a collection of classical geometric algorithms, which are converted into trainable modules and combined into an end-to-end differentiable architecture. DeepV2D interleaves two stages: motion estimation and depth estimation. During inference, motion and depth estimation are alternated and converge to accurate depth. Code is available https://github.com/princeton-vl/DeepV2D.

11
Neural RGB->D Sensing: Depth and Uncertainty from a Video Camera
2019-01-09
Depth sensing is crucial for 3D reconstruction and scene understanding.
Active depth sensors provide dense metric measurements, but often suffer from
limitations such as restricted operating ranges, low spatial resolution, sensor
interference, and high power consumption. In this paper, we propose a deep
learning (DL) method to estimate per-pixel depth and its uncertainty
continuously from a monocular video stream, with the goal of effectively
turning an RGB camera into an RGB-D camera. Unlike prior DL-based methods, we
estimate a depth probability distribution for each pixel rather than a single
depth value, leading to an estimate of a 3D depth probability volume for each
input frame. These depth probability volumes are accumulated over time under a
Bayesian filtering framework as more incoming frames are processed
sequentially, which effectively reduces depth uncertainty and improves
accuracy, robustness, and temporal stability. Compared to prior work, the
proposed approach achieves more accurate and stable results, and generalizes
better to new datasets. Experimental results also show the output of our
approach can be directly fed into classical RGB-D based 3D scanning methods for
3D scene reconstruction.

18
The Replica Dataset: A Digital Replica of Indoor Spaces
2019-06-13
We introduce Replica, a dataset of 18 highly photo-realistic 3D indoor scene reconstructions at room and building scale. Each scene consists of a dense mesh, high-resolution high-dynamic-range (HDR) textures, per-primitive semantic class and instance information, and planar mirror and glass reflectors. The goal of Replica is to enable machine learning (ML) research that relies on visually, geometrically, and semantically realistic generative models of the world - for instance, egocentric computer vision, semantic segmentation in 2D and 3D, geometric inference, and the development of embodied agents (virtual robots) performing navigation, instruction following, and question answering. Due to the high level of realism of the renderings from Replica, there is hope that ML systems trained on Replica may transfer directly to real world image and video data. Together with the data, we are releasing a minimal C++ SDK as a starting point for working with the Replica dataset. In addition, Replica is `Habitat-compatible', i.e. can be natively used with AI Habitat for training and testing embodied agents.

22
Atlas: End-to-End 3D Scene Reconstruction from Posed Images
2020-03-23
We present an end-to-end 3D reconstruction method for a scene by directly regressing a truncated signed distance function (TSDF) from a set of posed RGB images. Traditional approaches to 3D reconstruction rely on an intermediate representation of depth maps prior to estimating a full 3D model of a scene. We hypothesize that a direct regression to 3D is more effective. A 2D CNN extracts features from each image independently which are then back-projected and accumulated into a voxel volume using the camera intrinsics and extrinsics. After accumulation, a 3D CNN refines the accumulated features and predicts the TSDF values. Additionally, semantic segmentation of the 3D model is obtained without significant computation. This approach is evaluated on the Scannet dataset where we significantly outperform state-of-the-art baselines (deep multiview stereo followed by traditional TSDF fusion) both quantitatively and qualitatively. We compare our 3D semantic segmentation to prior methods that use a depth sensor since no previous work attempts the problem with only RGB input.

23
CoReNet: Coherent 3D scene reconstruction from a single RGB image
2020-04-27
Advances in deep learning techniques have allowed recent work to reconstruct the shape of a single object given only one RBG image as input. Building on common encoder-decoder architectures for this task, we propose three extensions: (1) ray-traced skip connections that propagate local 2D information to the output 3D volume in a physically correct manner; (2) a hybrid 3D volume representation that enables building translation equivariant models, while at the same time encoding fine object details without an excessive memory footprint; (3) a reconstruction loss tailored to capture overall object geometry. Furthermore, we adapt our model to address the harder task of reconstructing multiple objects from a single image. We reconstruct all objects jointly in one pass, producing a coherent reconstruction, where all objects live in a single consistent 3D coordinate frame relative to the camera and they do not intersect in 3D space. We also handle occlusions and resolve them by hallucinating the missing object parts in the 3D volume. We validate the impact of our contributions experimentally both on synthetic data from ShapeNet as well as real images from Pix3D. Our method improves over the state-of-the-art single-object methods on both datasets. Finally, we evaluate performance quantitatively on multiple object reconstruction with synthetic scenes assembled from ShapeNet objects.

27
3D Scene Reconstruction from a Single Viewport
None
We present a novel approach to infer volumetric reconstructions from a single viewport, based only on an RGB image and a reconstructed normal image. To overcome the problem of reconstructing regions in 3D that are occluded in the 2D image, we propose to learn this information from synthetically generated high-resolution data. To do this, we introduce a deep network architecture that is specifically designed for volumetric TSDF data by featuring a specific tree net architecture. Our framework can handle a 3D resolution of $512^3$ by introducing a dedicated compression technique based on a modified autoencoder. Furthermore, we introduce a novel loss shaping technique for 3D data that guides the learning process towards regions where free and occupied space are close to each other. As we show in experiments on synthetic and realistic benchmark data, this leads to very good reconstruction results, both visually and in terms of quantitative measures.

29
GRF: Learning a General Radiance Field for 3D Representation and Rendering
2020-10-09
We present a simple yet powerful neural network that implicitly represents and renders 3D objects and scenes only from 2D observations. The network models 3D geometries as a general radiance field, which takes a set of 2D images with camera poses and intrinsics as input, constructs an internal representation for each point of the 3D space, and then renders the corresponding appearance and geometry of that point viewed from an arbitrary position. The key to our approach is to learn local features for each pixel in 2D images and to then project these features to 3D points, thus yielding general and rich point representations. We additionally integrate an attention mechanism to aggregate pixel features from multiple 2D views, such that visual occlusions are implicitly taken into account. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method can generate high-quality and realistic novel views for novel objects, unseen categories and challenging real-world scenes.

32
Learning to Recover 3D Scene Shape from a Single Image
2020-12-17
Despite significant progress in monocular depth estimation in the wild, recent state-of-the-art methods cannot be used to recover accurate 3D scene shape due to an unknown depth shift induced by shift-invariant reconstruction losses used in mixed-data depth prediction training, and possible unknown camera focal length. We investigate this problem in detail, and propose a two-stage framework that first predicts depth up to an unknown scale and shift from a single monocular image, and then use 3D point cloud encoders to predict the missing depth shift and focal length that allow us to recover a realistic 3D scene shape. In addition, we propose an image-level normalized regression loss and a normal-based geometry loss to enhance depth prediction models trained on mixed datasets. We test our depth model on nine unseen datasets and achieve state-of-the-art performance on zero-shot dataset generalization. Code is available at: https://git.io/Depth

33
A Pose-only Solution to Visual Reconstruction and Navigation
2021-03-02
Visual navigation and three-dimensional (3D) scene reconstruction are essential for robotics to interact with the surrounding environment. Large-scale scenes and critical camera motions are great challenges facing the research community to achieve this goal. We raised a pose-only imaging geometry framework and algorithms that can help solve these challenges. The representation is a linear function of camera global translations, which allows for efficient and robust camera motion estimation. As a result, the spatial feature coordinates can be analytically reconstructed and do not require nonlinear optimization. Experiments demonstrate that the computational efficiency of recovering the scene and associated camera poses is significantly improved by 2-4 orders of magnitude. This solution might be promising to unlock real-time 3D visual computing in many forefront applications.

34
NeuralRecon: Real-Time Coherent 3D Reconstruction from Monocular Video
2021-04-01
We present a novel framework named NeuralRecon for real-time 3D scene reconstruction from a monocular video. Unlike previous methods that estimate single-view depth maps separately on each key-frame and fuse them later, we propose to directly reconstruct local surfaces represented as sparse TSDF volumes for each video fragment sequentially by a neural network. A learning-based TSDF fusion module based on gated recurrent units is used to guide the network to fuse features from previous fragments. This design allows the network to capture local smoothness prior and global shape prior of 3D surfaces when sequentially reconstructing the surfaces, resulting in accurate, coherent, and real-time surface reconstruction. The experiments on ScanNet and 7-Scenes datasets show that our system outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of both accuracy and speed. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first learning-based system that is able to reconstruct dense coherent 3D geometry in real-time.

35
RetrievalFuse: Neural 3D Scene Reconstruction with a Database
2021-03-31
3D reconstruction of large scenes is a challenging problem due to the high-complexity nature of the solution space, in particular for generative neural networks. In contrast to traditional generative learned models which encode the full generative process into a neural network and can struggle with maintaining local details at the scene level, we introduce a new method that directly leverages scene geometry from the training database. First, we learn to synthesize an initial estimate for a 3D scene, constructed by retrieving a top-k set of volumetric chunks from the scene database. These candidates are then refined to a final scene generation with an attention-based refinement that can effectively select the most consistent set of geometry from the candidates and combine them together to create an output scene, facilitating transfer of coherent structures and local detail from train scene geometry. We demonstrate our neural scene reconstruction with a database for the tasks of 3D super resolution and surface reconstruction from sparse point clouds, showing that our approach enables generation of more coherent, accurate 3D scenes, improving on average by over 8% in IoU over state-of-the-art scene reconstruction.

36
TransformerFusion: Monocular RGB Scene Reconstruction using Transformers
2021-07-05
We introduce TransformerFusion, a transformer-based 3D scene reconstruction approach. From an input monocular RGB video, the video frames are processed by a transformer network that fuses the observations into a volumetric feature grid representing the scene; this feature grid is then decoded into an implicit 3D scene representation. Key to our approach is the transformer architecture that enables the network to learn to attend to the most relevant image frames for each 3D location in the scene, supervised only by the scene reconstruction task. Features are fused in a coarse-to-fine fashion, storing fine-level features only where needed, requiring lower memory storage and enabling fusion at interactive rates. The feature grid is then decoded to a higher-resolution scene reconstruction, using an MLP-based surface occupancy prediction from interpolated coarse-to-fine 3D features. Our approach results in an accurate surface reconstruction, outperforming state-of-the-art multi-view stereo depth estimation methods, fully-convolutional 3D reconstruction approaches, and approaches using LSTM- or GRU-based recurrent networks for video sequence fusion.

43
Panoptic 3D Scene Reconstruction From a Single RGB Image
2021-11-03
Understanding 3D scenes from a single image is fundamental to a wide variety of tasks, such as for robotics, motion planning, or augmented reality. Existing works in 3D perception from a single RGB image tend to focus on geometric reconstruction only, or geometric reconstruction with semantic segmentation or instance segmentation. Inspired by 2D panoptic segmentation, we propose to unify the tasks of geometric reconstruction, 3D semantic segmentation, and 3D instance segmentation into the task of panoptic 3D scene reconstruction - from a single RGB image, predicting the complete geometric reconstruction of the scene in the camera frustum of the image, along with semantic and instance segmentations. We thus propose a new approach for holistic 3D scene understanding from a single RGB image which learns to lift and propagate 2D features from an input image to a 3D volumetric scene representation. We demonstrate that this holistic view of joint scene reconstruction, semantic, and instance segmentation is beneficial over treating the tasks independently, thus outperforming alternative approaches.

45
MonoScene: Monocular 3D Semantic Scene Completion
2021-12-01
MonoScene proposes a 3D Semantic Scene Completion (SSC) framework, where the dense geometry and semantics of a scene are inferred from a single monocular RGB image. Different from the SSC literature, relying on 2.5 or 3D input, we solve the complex problem of 2D to 3D scene reconstruction while jointly inferring its semantics. Our framework relies on successive 2D and 3D UNets bridged by a novel 2D-3D features projection inspiring from optics and introduces a 3D context relation prior to enforce spatio-semantic consistency. Along with architectural contributions, we introduce novel global scene and local frustums losses. Experiments show we outperform the literature on all metrics and datasets while hallucinating plausible scenery even beyond the camera field of view. Our code and trained models are available at https://github.com/cv-rits/MonoScene.

48
Towards 3D Scene Reconstruction from Locally Scale-Aligned Monocular Video Depth
2022-02-03
Existing monocular depth estimation methods have achieved excellent robustness in diverse scenes, but they can only retrieve affine-invariant depth, up to an unknown scale and shift. However, in some video-based scenarios such as video depth estimation and 3D scene reconstruction from a video, the unknown scale and shift residing in per-frame prediction may cause the depth inconsistency. To solve this problem, we propose a locally weighted linear regression method to recover the scale and shift with very sparse anchor points, which ensures the scale consistency along consecutive frames. Extensive experiments show that our method can boost the performance of existing state-of-the-art approaches by 50% at most over several zero-shot benchmarks. Besides, we merge over 6.3 million RGBD images to train strong and robust depth models. Our produced ResNet50-backbone model even outperforms the state-of-the-art DPT ViT-Large model. Combining with geometry-based reconstruction methods, we formulate a new dense 3D scene reconstruction pipeline, which benefits from both the scale consistency of sparse points and the robustness of monocular methods. By performing the simple per-frame prediction over a video, the accurate 3D scene shape can be recovered.

49
Neural 3D Scene Reconstruction with the Manhattan-world Assumption
2022-05-05
This paper addresses the challenge of reconstructing 3D indoor scenes from multi-view images. Many previous works have shown impressive reconstruction results on textured objects, but they still have difficulty in handling low-textured planar regions, which are common in indoor scenes. An approach to solving this issue is to incorporate planer constraints into the depth map estimation in multi-view stereo-based methods, but the per-view plane estimation and depth optimization lack both efficiency and multi-view consistency. In this work, we show that the planar constraints can be conveniently integrated into the recent implicit neural representation-based reconstruction methods. Specifically, we use an MLP network to represent the signed distance function as the scene geometry. Based on the Manhattan-world assumption, planar constraints are employed to regularize the geometry in floor and wall regions predicted by a 2D semantic segmentation network. To resolve the inaccurate segmentation, we encode the semantics of 3D points with another MLP and design a novel loss that jointly optimizes the scene geometry and semantics in 3D space. Experiments on ScanNet and 7-Scenes datasets show that the proposed method outperforms previous methods by a large margin on 3D reconstruction quality. The code is available at https://zju3dv.github.io/manhattan_sdf.

50
READ: Large-Scale Neural Scene Rendering for Autonomous Driving
2022-05-11
Synthesizing free-view photo-realistic images is an important task in multimedia. With the development of advanced driver assistance systems~(ADAS) and their applications in autonomous vehicles, experimenting with different scenarios becomes a challenge. Although the photo-realistic street scenes can be synthesized by image-to-image translation methods, which cannot produce coherent scenes due to the lack of 3D information. In this paper, a large-scale neural rendering method is proposed to synthesize the autonomous driving scene~(READ), which makes it possible to synthesize large-scale driving scenarios on a PC through a variety of sampling schemes. In order to represent driving scenarios, we propose an {\omega} rendering network to learn neural descriptors from sparse point clouds. Our model can not only synthesize realistic driving scenes but also stitch and edit driving scenes. Experiments show that our model performs well in large-scale driving scenarios.

52
PhotoScene: Photorealistic Material and Lighting Transfer for Indoor Scenes
2022-07-02
Most indoor 3D scene reconstruction methods focus on recovering 3D geometry and scene layout. In this work, we go beyond this to propose PhotoScene, a framework that takes input image(s) of a scene along with approximately aligned CAD geometry (either reconstructed automatically or manually specified) and builds a photorealistic digital twin with high-quality materials and similar lighting. We model scene materials using procedural material graphs; such graphs represent photorealistic and resolution-independent materials. We optimize the parameters of these graphs and their texture scale and rotation, as well as the scene lighting to best match the input image via a differentiable rendering layer. We evaluate our technique on objects and layout reconstructions from ScanNet, SUN RGB-D and stock photographs, and demonstrate that our method reconstructs high-quality, fully relightable 3D scenes that can be re-rendered under arbitrary viewpoints, zooms and lighting.

60
SceneRF: Self-Supervised Monocular 3D Scene Reconstruction with Radiance Fields
2022-12-05
3D reconstruction from 2D image was extensively studied, training with depth supervision. To relax the dependence to costly-acquired datasets, we propose SceneRF, a self-supervised monocular scene reconstruction method using only posed image sequences for training. Fueled by the recent progress in neural radiance fields (NeRF) we optimize a radiance field though with explicit depth optimization and a novel probabilistic sampling strategy to efficiently handle large scenes. At inference, a single input image suffices to hallucinate novel depth views which are fused together to obtain 3D scene reconstruction. Thorough experiments demonstrate that we outperform all recent baselines for novel depth views synthesis and scene reconstruction, on indoor BundleFusion and outdoor SemanticKITTI. Our code is available at https://astra-vision.github.io/SceneRF.

63
UAVStereo: A Multiple Resolution Dataset for Stereo Matching in UAV Scenarios
2023-02-20
Stereo matching is a fundamental task for 3D scene reconstruction. Recently, deep learning based methods have proven effective on some benchmark datasets, such as KITTI and Scene Flow. UAVs (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles) are commonly utilized for surface observation, and their captured images are frequently used for detailed 3D reconstruction due to high resolution and low-altitude acquisition. At present, the mainstream supervised learning network requires a significant amount of training data with ground-truth labels to learn model parameters. However, due to the scarcity of UAV stereo matching datasets, the learning-based network cannot be applied to UAV images. To facilitate further research, this paper proposes a novel pipeline to generate accurate and dense disparity maps using detailed meshes reconstructed by UAV images and LiDAR point clouds. Through the proposed pipeline, this paper constructs a multi-resolution UAV scenario dataset, called UAVStereo, with over 34k stereo image pairs covering 3 typical scenes. As far as we know, UAVStereo is the first stereo matching dataset of UAV low-altitude scenarios. The dataset includes synthetic and real stereo pairs to enable generalization from the synthetic domain to the real domain. Furthermore, our UAVStereo dataset provides multi-resolution and multi-scene images pairs to accommodate a variety of sensors and environments. In this paper, we evaluate traditional and state-of-the-art deep learning methods, highlighting their limitations in addressing challenges in UAV scenarios and offering suggestions for future research. The dataset is available at https://github.com/rebecca0011/UAVStereo.git

65
3D Video Object Detection with Learnable Object-Centric Global Optimization
2023-03-27
We explore long-term temporal visual correspondence-based optimization for 3D video object detection in this work. Visual correspondence refers to one-to-one mappings for pixels across multiple images. Correspondence-based optimization is the cornerstone for 3D scene reconstruction but is less studied in 3D video object detection, because moving objects violate multi-view geometry constraints and are treated as outliers during scene reconstruction. We address this issue by treating objects as first-class citizens during correspondence-based optimization. In this work, we propose BA-Det, an end-to-end optimizable object detector with object-centric temporal correspondence learning and featuremetric object bundle adjustment. Empirically, we verify the effectiveness and efficiency of BA-Det for multiple baseline 3D detectors under various setups. Our BA-Det achieves SOTA performance on the large-scale Waymo Open Dataset (WOD) with only marginal computation cost. Our code is available at https://github.com/jiaweihe1996/BA-Det.

66
VisFusion: Visibility-aware Online 3D Scene Reconstruction from Videos
2023-04-21
We propose VisFusion, a visibility-aware online 3D scene reconstruction approach from posed monocular videos. In particular, we aim to reconstruct the scene from volumetric features. Unlike previous reconstruction methods which aggregate features for each voxel from input views without considering its visibility, we aim to improve the feature fusion by explicitly inferring its visibility from a similarity matrix, computed from its projected features in each image pair. Following previous works, our model is a coarse-to-fine pipeline including a volume sparsification process. Different from their works which sparsify voxels globally with a fixed occupancy threshold, we perform the sparsification on a local feature volume along each visual ray to preserve at least one voxel per ray for more fine details. The sparse local volume is then fused with a global one for online reconstruction. We further propose to predict TSDF in a coarse-to-fine manner by learning its residuals across scales leading to better TSDF predictions. Experimental results on benchmarks show that our method can achieve superior performance with more scene details. Code is available at: https://github.com/huiyu-gao/VisFusion

68
ENRICH: Multi-purposE dataset for beNchmaRking In Computer vision and pHotogrammetry
2023-04-01
The availability of high-resolution data and accurate ground truth is essential to evaluate and compare methods and algorithms properly. Moreover, it is often difficult to acquire real data for a given application domain that is sufficiently representative and heterogeneous in terms of scene representation, acquisition conditions, point of view, etc. To overcome the limitations of available datasets, this paper presents a new synthetic, multi-purpose dataset called ENRICH for testing photogrammetric and computer vision algorithms. Compared to existing datasets, ENRICH offers higher resolution images rendered with different lighting conditions, camera orientations, scales, and fields of view. Specifically, ENRICH is composed of three sub-datasets: ENRICH-Aerial, ENRICH-Square, and ENRICH-Statue, each exhibiting different characteristics. We show the usefulness of the proposed dataset on several examples of photogrammetry and computer vision-related tasks such as: evaluation of hand-crafted and deep learning-based local features, effects of ground control points (GCPs) configuration on the 3D accuracy, and monocular depth estimation.

70
Occ-BEV: Multi-Camera Unified Pre-training via 3D Scene Reconstruction
2023-05-30
Multi-camera 3D perception has emerged as a prominent research field in autonomous driving, offering a viable and cost-effective alternative to LiDAR-based solutions. However, existing multi-camera algorithms primarily rely on monocular image pre-training, which overlooks the spatial and temporal correlations among different camera views. To address this limitation, we propose the first multi-camera unified pre-training framework called Occ-BEV, which involves initially reconstructing the 3D scene as the foundational stage and subsequently fine-tuning the model on downstream tasks. Specifically, a 3D decoder is designed for leveraging Bird's Eye View (BEV) features from multi-view images to predict the 3D geometric occupancy to enable the model to capture a more comprehensive understanding of the 3D environment. A significant benefit of Occ-BEV is its capability of utilizing a considerable volume of unlabeled image-LiDAR pairs for pre-training purposes. The proposed multi-camera unified pre-training framework demonstrates promising results in key tasks such as multi-camera 3D object detection and surrounding semantic scene completion. When compared to monocular pre-training methods on the nuScenes dataset, Occ-BEV shows a significant improvement of about 2.0% in mAP and 2.0% in NDS for multi-camera 3D object detection, as well as a 3% increase in mIoU for surrounding semantic scene completion. Codes are publicly available at https://github.com/chaytonmin/Occ-BEV.

71
BUOL: A Bottom-Up Framework with Occupancy-aware Lifting for Panoptic 3D Scene Reconstruction From A Single Image
2023-06-01
Understanding and modeling the 3D scene from a single image is a practical problem. A recent advance proposes a panoptic 3D scene reconstruction task that performs both 3D reconstruction and 3D panoptic segmentation from a single image. Although having made substantial progress, recent works only focus on top-down approaches that fill 2D instances into 3D voxels according to estimated depth, which hinders their performance by two ambiguities. (1) instance-channel ambiguity: The variable ids of instances in each scene lead to ambiguity during filling voxel channels with 2D information, confusing the following 3D refinement. (2) voxel-reconstruction ambiguity: 2D-to-3D lifting with estimated single view depth only propagates 2D information onto the surface of 3D regions, leading to ambiguity during the reconstruction of regions behind the frontal view surface. In this paper, we propose BUOL, a Bottom-Up framework with Occupancy-aware Lifting to address the two issues for panoptic 3D scene reconstruction from a single image. For instance-channel ambiguity, a bottom-up framework lifts 2D information to 3D voxels based on deterministic semantic assignments rather than arbitrary instance id assignments. The 3D voxels are then refined and grouped into 3D instances according to the predicted 2D instance centers. For voxel-reconstruction ambiguity, the estimated multi-plane occupancy is leveraged together with depth to fill the whole regions of things and stuff. Our method shows a tremendous performance advantage over state-of-the-art methods on synthetic dataset 3D-Front and real-world dataset Matterport3D. Code and models are available in https://github.com/chtsy/buol.

72
BAA-NGP: Bundle-Adjusting Accelerated Neural Graphics Primitives
2023-06-07
Implicit neural representation has emerged as a powerful method for reconstructing 3D scenes from 2D images. Given a set of camera poses and associated images, the models can be trained to synthesize novel, unseen views. In order to expand the use cases for implicit neural representations, we need to incorporate camera pose estimation capabilities as part of the representation learning, as this is necessary for reconstructing scenes from real-world video sequences where cameras are generally not being tracked. Existing approaches like COLMAP and, most recently, bundle-adjusting neural radiance field methods often suffer from lengthy processing times. These delays ranging from hours to days, arise from laborious feature matching, hardware limitations, dense point sampling, and long training times required by a multi-layer perceptron structure with a large number of parameters. To address these challenges, we propose a framework called bundle-adjusting accelerated neural graphics primitives (BAA-NGP). Our approach leverages accelerated sampling and hash encoding to expedite both pose refinement/estimation and 3D scene reconstruction. Experimental results demonstrate that our method achieves a more than 10 to 20 $\times$ speed improvement in novel view synthesis compared to other bundle-adjusting neural radiance field methods without sacrificing the quality of pose estimation. The github repository can be found here https://github.com/IntelLabs/baa-ngp.

75
GAFAR: Graph-Attention Feature-Augmentation for Registration A Fast and Light-weight Point Set Registration Algorithm
2023-07-05
Rigid registration of point clouds is a fundamental problem in computer vision with many applications from 3D scene reconstruction to geometry capture and robotics. If a suitable initial registration is available, conventional methods like ICP and its many variants can provide adequate solutions. In absence of a suitable initialization and in the presence of a high outlier rate or in the case of small overlap though the task of rigid registration still presents great challenges. The advent of deep learning in computer vision has brought new drive to research on this topic, since it provides the possibility to learn expressive feature-representations and provide one-shot estimates instead of depending on time-consuming iterations of conventional robust methods. Yet, the rotation and permutation invariant nature of point clouds poses its own challenges to deep learning, resulting in loss of performance and low generalization capability due to sensitivity to outliers and characteristics of 3D scans not present during network training. In this work, we present a novel fast and light-weight network architecture using the attention mechanism to augment point descriptors at inference time to optimally suit the registration task of the specific point clouds it is presented with. Employing a fully-connected graph both within and between point clouds lets the network reason about the importance and reliability of points for registration, making our approach robust to outliers, low overlap and unseen data. We test the performance of our registration algorithm on different registration and generalization tasks and provide information on runtime and resource consumption. The code and trained weights are available at https://github.com/mordecaimalignatius/GAFAR/.

