8
DeepV2D: Video to Depth with Differentiable Structure from Motion
2018-12-11
We propose DeepV2D, an end-to-end deep learning architecture for predicting depth from video. DeepV2D combines the representation ability of neural networks with the geometric principles governing image formation. We compose a collection of classical geometric algorithms, which are converted into trainable modules and combined into an end-to-end differentiable architecture. DeepV2D interleaves two stages: motion estimation and depth estimation. During inference, motion and depth estimation are alternated and converge to accurate depth. Code is available https://github.com/princeton-vl/DeepV2D.

22
Atlas: End-to-End 3D Scene Reconstruction from Posed Images
2020-03-23
We present an end-to-end 3D reconstruction method for a scene by directly regressing a truncated signed distance function (TSDF) from a set of posed RGB images. Traditional approaches to 3D reconstruction rely on an intermediate representation of depth maps prior to estimating a full 3D model of a scene. We hypothesize that a direct regression to 3D is more effective. A 2D CNN extracts features from each image independently which are then back-projected and accumulated into a voxel volume using the camera intrinsics and extrinsics. After accumulation, a 3D CNN refines the accumulated features and predicts the TSDF values. Additionally, semantic segmentation of the 3D model is obtained without significant computation. This approach is evaluated on the Scannet dataset where we significantly outperform state-of-the-art baselines (deep multiview stereo followed by traditional TSDF fusion) both quantitatively and qualitatively. We compare our 3D semantic segmentation to prior methods that use a depth sensor since no previous work attempts the problem with only RGB input.

33
A Pose-only Solution to Visual Reconstruction and Navigation
2021-03-02
Visual navigation and three-dimensional (3D) scene reconstruction are essential for robotics to interact with the surrounding environment. Large-scale scenes and critical camera motions are great challenges facing the research community to achieve this goal. We raised a pose-only imaging geometry framework and algorithms that can help solve these challenges. The representation is a linear function of camera global translations, which allows for efficient and robust camera motion estimation. As a result, the spatial feature coordinates can be analytically reconstructed and do not require nonlinear optimization. Experiments demonstrate that the computational efficiency of recovering the scene and associated camera poses is significantly improved by 2-4 orders of magnitude. This solution might be promising to unlock real-time 3D visual computing in many forefront applications.

34
NeuralRecon: Real-Time Coherent 3D Reconstruction from Monocular Video
2021-04-01
We present a novel framework named NeuralRecon for real-time 3D scene reconstruction from a monocular video. Unlike previous methods that estimate single-view depth maps separately on each key-frame and fuse them later, we propose to directly reconstruct local surfaces represented as sparse TSDF volumes for each video fragment sequentially by a neural network. A learning-based TSDF fusion module based on gated recurrent units is used to guide the network to fuse features from previous fragments. This design allows the network to capture local smoothness prior and global shape prior of 3D surfaces when sequentially reconstructing the surfaces, resulting in accurate, coherent, and real-time surface reconstruction. The experiments on ScanNet and 7-Scenes datasets show that our system outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of both accuracy and speed. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first learning-based system that is able to reconstruct dense coherent 3D geometry in real-time.

65
3D Video Object Detection with Learnable Object-Centric Global Optimization
2023-03-27
We explore long-term temporal visual correspondence-based optimization for 3D video object detection in this work. Visual correspondence refers to one-to-one mappings for pixels across multiple images. Correspondence-based optimization is the cornerstone for 3D scene reconstruction but is less studied in 3D video object detection, because moving objects violate multi-view geometry constraints and are treated as outliers during scene reconstruction. We address this issue by treating objects as first-class citizens during correspondence-based optimization. In this work, we propose BA-Det, an end-to-end optimizable object detector with object-centric temporal correspondence learning and featuremetric object bundle adjustment. Empirically, we verify the effectiveness and efficiency of BA-Det for multiple baseline 3D detectors under various setups. Our BA-Det achieves SOTA performance on the large-scale Waymo Open Dataset (WOD) with only marginal computation cost. Our code is available at https://github.com/jiaweihe1996/BA-Det.

66
VisFusion: Visibility-aware Online 3D Scene Reconstruction from Videos
2023-04-21
We propose VisFusion, a visibility-aware online 3D scene reconstruction approach from posed monocular videos. In particular, we aim to reconstruct the scene from volumetric features. Unlike previous reconstruction methods which aggregate features for each voxel from input views without considering its visibility, we aim to improve the feature fusion by explicitly inferring its visibility from a similarity matrix, computed from its projected features in each image pair. Following previous works, our model is a coarse-to-fine pipeline including a volume sparsification process. Different from their works which sparsify voxels globally with a fixed occupancy threshold, we perform the sparsification on a local feature volume along each visual ray to preserve at least one voxel per ray for more fine details. The sparse local volume is then fused with a global one for online reconstruction. We further propose to predict TSDF in a coarse-to-fine manner by learning its residuals across scales leading to better TSDF predictions. Experimental results on benchmarks show that our method can achieve superior performance with more scene details. Code is available at: https://github.com/huiyu-gao/VisFusion

