0
Efficient and accurate monitoring of the depth information in a Wireless Multimedia Sensor Network based surveillance
2017-06-25
Wireless Multimedia Sensor Network (WMSN) is a promising technology capturing
rich multimedia data like audio and video, which can be useful to monitor an
environment under surveillance. However, many scenarios in real time monitoring
requires 3D depth information. In this research work, we propose to use the
disparity map that is computed from two or multiple images, in order to monitor
the depth information in an object or event under surveillance using WMSN. Our
system is based on distributed wireless sensors allowing us to notably reduce
the computational time needed for 3D depth reconstruction, thus permitting the
success of real time solutions. Each pair of sensors will capture images for a
targeted place/object and will operate a Stereo Matching in order to create a
Disparity Map. Disparity maps will give us the ability to decrease traffic on
the bandwidth, because they are of low size. This will increase WMSN lifetime.
Any event can be detected after computing the depth value for the target object
in the scene, and also 3D scene reconstruction can be achieved with a disparity
map and some reference(s) image(s) taken by the node(s).

1
Have a Look at What I See
2015-05-19
We propose a method for guiding a photographer to rotate her/his smartphone
camera to obtain an image that overlaps with another image of the same scene.
The other image is taken by another photographer from a different viewpoint.
Our method is applicable even when the images do not have overlapping fields of
view. Straightforward applications of our method include sharing attention to
regions of interest for social purposes, or adding missing images to improve
structure for motion results. Our solution uses additional images of the scene,
which are often available since many people use their smartphone cameras
regularly. These images may be available online from other photographers who
are present at the scene. Our method avoids 3D scene reconstruction; it relies
instead on a new representation that consists of the spatial orders of the
scene points on two axes, x and y. This representation allows a sequence of
points to be chosen efficiently and projected onto the photographers images,
using epipolar point transfer. Overlaying these epipolar lines on the live
preview of the camera produces a convenient interface to guide the user. The
method was tested on challenging datasets of images and succeeded in guiding a
photographer from one view to a non-overlapping destination view.

2
Automatic Objects Removal for Scene Completion
2015-01-23
With the explosive growth of web-based cameras and mobile devices, billions
of photographs are uploaded to the internet. We can trivially collect a huge
number of photo streams for various goals, such as 3D scene reconstruction and
other big data applications. However, this is not an easy task due to the fact
the retrieved photos are neither aligned nor calibrated. Furthermore, with the
occlusion of unexpected foreground objects like people, vehicles, it is even
more challenging to find feature correspondences and reconstruct realistic
scenes. In this paper, we propose a structure based image completion algorithm
for object removal that produces visually plausible content with consistent
structure and scene texture. We use an edge matching technique to infer the
potential structure of the unknown region. Driven by the estimated structure,
texture synthesis is performed automatically along the estimated curves. We
evaluate the proposed method on different types of images: from highly
structured indoor environment to the natural scenes. Our experimental results
demonstrate satisfactory performance that can be potentially used for
subsequent big data processing: 3D scene reconstruction and location
recognition.

3
Structure Preserving Large Imagery Reconstruction
2014-09-13
With the explosive growth of web-based cameras and mobile devices, billions
of photographs are uploaded to the internet. We can trivially collect a huge
number of photo streams for various goals, such as image clustering, 3D scene
reconstruction, and other big data applications. However, such tasks are not
easy due to the fact the retrieved photos can have large variations in their
view perspectives, resolutions, lighting, noises, and distortions.
Fur-thermore, with the occlusion of unexpected objects like people, vehicles,
it is even more challenging to find feature correspondences and reconstruct
re-alistic scenes. In this paper, we propose a structure-based image completion
algorithm for object removal that produces visually plausible content with
consistent structure and scene texture. We use an edge matching technique to
infer the potential structure of the unknown region. Driven by the estimated
structure, texture synthesis is performed automatically along the estimated
curves. We evaluate the proposed method on different types of images: from
highly structured indoor environment to natural scenes. Our experimental
results demonstrate satisfactory performance that can be potentially used for
subsequent big data processing, such as image localization, object retrieval,
and scene reconstruction. Our experiments show that this approach achieves
favorable results that outperform existing state-of-the-art techniques.

4
Consistent Generative Query Networks
2018-07-05
Stochastic video prediction models take in a sequence of image frames, and
generate a sequence of consecutive future image frames. These models typically
generate future frames in an autoregressive fashion, which is slow and requires
the input and output frames to be consecutive. We introduce a model that
overcomes these drawbacks by generating a latent representation from an
arbitrary set of frames that can then be used to simultaneously and efficiently
sample temporally consistent frames at arbitrary time-points. For example, our
model can "jump" and directly sample frames at the end of the video, without
sampling intermediate frames. Synthetic video evaluations confirm substantial
gains in speed and functionality without loss in fidelity. We also apply our
framework to a 3D scene reconstruction dataset. Here, our model is conditioned
on camera location and can sample consistent sets of images for what an
occluded region of a 3D scene might look like, even if there are multiple
possibilities for what that region might contain. Reconstructions and videos
are available at https://bit.ly/2O4Pc4R.

5
Towards an Embodied Semantic Fovea: Semantic 3D scene reconstruction from ego-centric eye-tracker videos
2018-07-27
Incorporating the physical environment is essential for a complete
understanding of human behavior in unconstrained every-day tasks. This is
especially important in ego-centric tasks where obtaining 3 dimensional
information is both limiting and challenging with the current 2D video analysis
methods proving insufficient. Here we demonstrate a proof-of-concept system
which provides real-time 3D mapping and semantic labeling of the local
environment from an ego-centric RGB-D video-stream with 3D gaze point
estimation from head mounted eye tracking glasses. We augment existing work in
Semantic Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (Semantic SLAM) with collected
gaze vectors. Our system can then find and track objects both inside and
outside the user field-of-view in 3D from multiple perspectives with reasonable
accuracy. We validate our concept by producing a semantic map from images of
the NYUv2 dataset while simultaneously estimating gaze position and gaze
classes from recorded gaze data of the dataset images.

6
CNN based dense underwater 3D scene reconstruction by transfer learning using bubble database
2018-11-21
Dense 3D shape acquisition of swimming human or live fish is an important
research topic for sports, biological science and so on. For this purpose,
active stereo sensor is usually used in the air, however it cannot be applied
to the underwater environment because of refraction, strong light attenuation
and severe interference of bubbles. Passive stereo is a simple solution for
capturing dynamic scenes at underwater environment, however the shape with
textureless surfaces or irregular reflections cannot be recovered. Recently,
the stereo camera pair with a pattern projector for adding artificial textures
on the objects is proposed. However, to use the system for underwater
environment, several problems should be compensated, i.e., disturbance by
fluctuation and bubbles. Simple solution is to use convolutional neural network
for stereo to cancel the effects of bubbles and/or water fluctuation. Since it
is not easy to train CNN with small size of database with large variation, we
develop a special bubble generation device to efficiently create real bubble
database of multiple size and density. In addition, we propose a transfer
learning technique for multi-scale CNN to effectively remove bubbles and
projected-patterns on the object. Further, we develop a real system and
actually captured live swimming human, which has not been done before.
Experiments are conducted to show the effectiveness of our method compared with
the state of the art techniques.

7
Real-time Indoor Scene Reconstruction with RGBD and Inertia Input
2018-12-07
Camera motion estimation is a key technique for 3D scene reconstruction and
Simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). To make it be feasibly achieved,
previous works usually assume slow camera motions, which limits its usage in
many real cases. We propose an end-to-end 3D reconstruction system which
combines color, depth and inertial measurements to achieve robust
reconstruction with fast sensor motions. Our framework extends Kalman filter to
fuse the three kinds of information and involve an iterative method to jointly
optimize feature correspondences, camera poses and scene geometry. We also
propose a novel geometry-aware patch deformation technique to adapt the feature
appearance in image domain, leading to a more accurate feature matching under
fast camera motions. Experiments show that our patch deformation method
improves the accuracy of feature tracking, and our 3D reconstruction
outperforms the state-of-the-art solutions under fast camera motions.

8
DeepV2D: Video to Depth with Differentiable Structure from Motion
2018-12-11
We propose DeepV2D, an end-to-end deep learning architecture for predicting depth from video. DeepV2D combines the representation ability of neural networks with the geometric principles governing image formation. We compose a collection of classical geometric algorithms, which are converted into trainable modules and combined into an end-to-end differentiable architecture. DeepV2D interleaves two stages: motion estimation and depth estimation. During inference, motion and depth estimation are alternated and converge to accurate depth. Code is available https://github.com/princeton-vl/DeepV2D.

9
Cascaded Classification Models: Combining Models for Holistic Scene Understanding
2008-12-01
One of the original goals of computer vision was to fully understand a natural scene. This requires solving several problems simultaneously, including object detection, labeling of meaningful regions, and 3d reconstruction. While great progress has been made in tackling each of these problems in isolation, only recently have researchers again been considering the difficult task of assembling various methods to the mutual benefit of all. We consider learning a set of such classification models in such a way that they both solve their own problem and help each other. We develop a framework known as Cascaded Classification Models (CCM), where repeated instantiations of these classifiers are coupled by their input/output variables in a cascade that improves performance at each level. Our method requires only a limited “black box” interface with the models, allowing us to use very sophisticated, state-of-the-art classifiers without having to look under the hood. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method on a large set of natural images by combining the subtasks of scene categorization, object detection, multiclass image segmentation, and 3d scene reconstruction.

10
Consistent Jumpy Predictions for Videos and Scenes
2019-05-01
Stochastic video prediction models take in a sequence of image frames, and generate a sequence of consecutive future image frames. These models typically generate future frames in an autoregressive fashion, which is slow and requires the input and output frames to be consecutive. We introduce a model that overcomes these drawbacks by generating a latent representation from an arbitrary set of frames that can then be used to simultaneously and efficiently sample temporally consistent frames at arbitrary time-points. For example, our model can "jump" and directly sample frames at the end of the video, without sampling intermediate frames. Synthetic video evaluations confirm substantial gains in speed and functionality without loss in fidelity. We also apply our framework to a 3D scene reconstruction dataset. Here, our model is conditioned on camera location and can sample consistent sets of images for what an occluded region of a 3D scene might look like, even if there are multiple possibilities for what that region might contain. Reconstructions and videos are available at https://bit.ly/2O4Pc4R.


11
Neural RGB->D Sensing: Depth and Uncertainty from a Video Camera
2019-01-09
Depth sensing is crucial for 3D reconstruction and scene understanding.
Active depth sensors provide dense metric measurements, but often suffer from
limitations such as restricted operating ranges, low spatial resolution, sensor
interference, and high power consumption. In this paper, we propose a deep
learning (DL) method to estimate per-pixel depth and its uncertainty
continuously from a monocular video stream, with the goal of effectively
turning an RGB camera into an RGB-D camera. Unlike prior DL-based methods, we
estimate a depth probability distribution for each pixel rather than a single
depth value, leading to an estimate of a 3D depth probability volume for each
input frame. These depth probability volumes are accumulated over time under a
Bayesian filtering framework as more incoming frames are processed
sequentially, which effectively reduces depth uncertainty and improves
accuracy, robustness, and temporal stability. Compared to prior work, the
proposed approach achieves more accurate and stable results, and generalizes
better to new datasets. Experimental results also show the output of our
approach can be directly fed into classical RGB-D based 3D scanning methods for
3D scene reconstruction.

12
Joint 3D Scene Reconstruction and Class Segmentation
2013-06-01
Both image segmentation and dense 3D modeling from images represent an intrinsically ill-posed problem. Strong regularizers are therefore required to constrain the solutions from being 'too noisy'. Unfortunately, these priors generally yield overly smooth reconstructions and/or segmentations in certain regions whereas they fail in other areas to constrain the solution sufficiently. In this paper we argue that image segmentation and dense 3D reconstruction contribute valuable information to each other's task. As a consequence, we propose a rigorous mathematical framework to formulate and solve a joint segmentation and dense reconstruction problem. Image segmentations provide geometric cues about which surface orientations are more likely to appear at a certain location in space whereas a dense 3D reconstruction yields a suitable regularization for the segmentation problem by lifting the labeling from 2D images to 3D space. We show how appearance-based cues and 3D surface orientation priors can be learned from training data and subsequently used for class-specific regularization. Experimental results on several real data sets highlight the advantages of our joint formulation.

13
3D Scene Reconstruction with Multi-layer Depth and Epipolar Transformers
2019-02-18
We tackle the problem of automatically reconstructing a complete 3D model of a scene from a single RGB image. This challenging task requires inferring the shape of both visible and occluded surfaces. Our approach utilizes viewer-centered, multi-layer representation of scene geometry adapted from recent methods for single object shape completion. To improve the accuracy of view-centered representations for complex scenes, we introduce a novel "Epipolar Feature Transformer" that transfers convolutional network features from an input view to other virtual camera viewpoints, and thus better covers the 3D scene geometry. Unlike existing approaches that first detect and localize objects in 3D, and then infer object shape using category-specific models, our approach is fully convolutional, end-to-end differentiable, and avoids the resolution and memory limitations of voxel representations. We demonstrate the advantages of multi-layer depth representations and epipolar feature transformers on the reconstruction of a large database of indoor scenes.

14
Multi-scale Cross-form Pyramid Network for Stereo Matching
2019-04-25
Stereo matching plays an indispensable part in autonomous driving, robotics and 3D scene reconstruction. We propose a novel deep learning architecture, which called CFP-Net, a Cross-Form Pyramid stereo matching network for regressing disparity from a rectified pair of stereo images. The network consists of three modules: Multi-Scale 2D local feature extraction module, Cross-form spatial pyramid module and Multi-Scale 3D Feature Matching and Fusion module. The Multi-Scale 2D local feature extraction module can extract enough multi-scale features. The Cross-form spatial pyramid module aggregates the context information in different scales and locations to form a cost volume. Moreover, it is proved to be more effective than SPP and ASPP in ill-posed regions. The Multi-Scale 3D feature matching and fusion module is proved to regularize the cost volume using two parallel 3D deconvolution structure with two different receptive fields. Our proposed method has been evaluated on the Scene Flow and KITTI datasets. It achieves state-of-the-art performance on the KITTI 2012 and 2015 benchmarks.

15
TriDepth: Triangular Patch-based Deep Depth Prediction
2019-05-03
We propose a novel and efficient representation for single-view depth estimation using Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs). Point-cloud is generally used for CNN-based 3D scene reconstruction; however it has some drawbacks: (1) it is redundant as a representation for planar surfaces, and (2) no spatial relationships between points are available (e.g, texture and surface). As a more efficient representation, we introduce a triangular-patch-cloud, which represents the surface of the 3D structure using a set of triangular patches, and propose a CNN framework for its 3D structure estimation. In our framework, we create it by separating all the faces in a 2D mesh, which are determined adaptively from the input image, and estimate depths and normals of all the faces. Using a common RGBD-dataset, we show that our representation has a better or comparable performance than the existing point-cloud-based methods, although it has much less parameters.

16
World From Blur
2019-06-01
What can we tell from a single motion-blurred image? We show in this paper that a  3D  scene can be revealed. Unlike prior methods that focus on producing a deblurred image, we propose to estimate and take advantage of the hidden message of a blurred image, the relative motion trajectory, to restore the 3D scene collapsed during the exposure process. To this end, we train a deep network that jointly predicts the motion trajectory, the deblurred image, and the depth one, all of which in turn form a collaborative and self-supervised cycle that supervise one another to reproduce the input blurred image,  enabling plausible 3D scene reconstruction from a single blurred image. We test the proposed model on several large-scale datasets we constructed based on benchmarks, as well as real-world blurred images, and show that it yields very encouraging quantitative and qualitative results.

17
Neural RGB(r)D Sensing: Depth and Uncertainty From a Video Camera
2019-06-01
Depth sensing is crucial for 3D reconstruction and scene understanding. Active depth sensors provide dense metric measurements, but often suffer from limitations such as restricted operating ranges, low spatial resolution, sensor interference, and high power consumption. In this paper, we propose a deep learning (DL) method to estimate per-pixel depth and its uncertainty continuously from a monocular video stream, with the goal of effectively turning an RGB camera into an RGB-D camera. Unlike prior DL-based methods, we estimate a depth probability distribution for each pixel rather than a single depth value, leading to an estimate of a 3D depth probability volume for each input frame. These depth probability volumes are accumulated over time under a Bayesian filtering framework as more incoming frames are processed sequentially, which effectively reduces depth uncertainty and improves accuracy, robustness, and temporal stability. Compared to prior work, the proposed approach achieves more accurate and stable results, and generalizes better to new datasets. Experimental results also show the output of our approach can be directly fed into classical RGB-D based 3D scanning methods for 3D scene reconstruction. 

18
The Replica Dataset: A Digital Replica of Indoor Spaces
2019-06-13
We introduce Replica, a dataset of 18 highly photo-realistic 3D indoor scene reconstructions at room and building scale. Each scene consists of a dense mesh, high-resolution high-dynamic-range (HDR) textures, per-primitive semantic class and instance information, and planar mirror and glass reflectors. The goal of Replica is to enable machine learning (ML) research that relies on visually, geometrically, and semantically realistic generative models of the world - for instance, egocentric computer vision, semantic segmentation in 2D and 3D, geometric inference, and the development of embodied agents (virtual robots) performing navigation, instruction following, and question answering. Due to the high level of realism of the renderings from Replica, there is hope that ML systems trained on Replica may transfer directly to real world image and video data. Together with the data, we are releasing a minimal C++ SDK as a starting point for working with the Replica dataset. In addition, Replica is `Habitat-compatible', i.e. can be natively used with AI Habitat for training and testing embodied agents.

19
Appearance and Shape from Water Reflection
2019-06-25
This paper introduces single-image geometric and appearance reconstruction from water reflection photography, i.e., images capturing direct and water-reflected real-world scenes. Water reflection offers an additional viewpoint to the direct sight, collectively forming a stereo pair. The water-reflected scene, however, includes internally scattered and reflected environmental illumination in addition to the scene radiance, which precludes direct stereo matching. We derive a principled iterative method that disentangles this scene radiometry and geometry for reconstructing 3D scene structure as well as its high-dynamic range appearance. In the presence of waves, we simultaneously recover the wave geometry as surface normal perturbations of the water surface. Most important, we show that the water reflection enables calibration of the camera. In other words, for the first time, we show that capturing a direct and water-reflected scene in a single exposure forms a self-calibrating HDR catadioptric stereo camera. We demonstrate our method on a number of images taken in the wild. The results demonstrate a new means for leveraging this accidental catadioptric camera.

20
Long Range 3D with Quadocular Thermal (LWIR) Camera
2019-11-16
Long Wave Infrared (LWIR) cameras provide images regardles of the ambient illumination, they tolerate fog and are not blinded by the incoming car headlights. These features make LWIR cameras attractive for autonomous navigation, security and military applications. Thermal images can be used similarly to the visible range ones, including 3D scene reconstruction with two or more such cameras mounted on a rigid frame. There are two additional challenges for this spectral range: lower image resolution and lower contrast of the textures. In this work, we demonstrate quadocular LWIR camera setup, calibration, image capturing and processing that result in long range 3D perception with 0.077 pix disparity error over 90% of the depth map. With low resolution (160 x 120) LWIR sensors we achieved 10% range accuracy at 28 m with 56 degrees horizontal field of view (HFoV) and 150 mm baseline. Scaled to the now-standard 640 x 512 resolution and 200 mm baseline suitable for head-mounted application the result would be 10% accuracy at 130 m.

21
RGB-D Odometry and SLAM
2020-01-19
The emergence of modern RGB-D sensors had a significant impact in many application fields, including robotics, augmented reality (AR) and 3D scanning. They are low-cost, low-power and low-size alternatives to traditional range sensors such as LiDAR. Moreover, unlike RGB cameras, RGB-D sensors provide the additional depth information that removes the need of frame-by-frame triangulation for 3D scene reconstruction. These merits have made them very popular in mobile robotics and AR, where it is of great interest to estimate ego-motion and 3D scene structure. Such spatial understanding can enable robots to navigate autonomously without collisions and allow users to insert virtual entities consistent with the image stream. In this chapter, we review common formulations of odometry and Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (known by its acronym SLAM) using RGB-D stream input. The two topics are closely related, as the former aims to track the incremental camera motion with respect to a local map of the scene, and the latter to jointly estimate the camera trajectory and the global map with consistency. In both cases, the standard approaches minimize a cost function using nonlinear optimization techniques. This chapter consists of three main parts: In the first part, we introduce the basic concept of odometry and SLAM and motivate the use of RGB-D sensors. We also give mathematical preliminaries relevant to most odometry and SLAM algorithms. In the second part, we detail the three main components of SLAM systems: camera pose tracking, scene mapping and loop closing. For each component, we describe different approaches proposed in the literature. In the final part, we provide a brief discussion on advanced research topics with the references to the state-of-the-art.

22
Atlas: End-to-End 3D Scene Reconstruction from Posed Images
2020-03-23
We present an end-to-end 3D reconstruction method for a scene by directly regressing a truncated signed distance function (TSDF) from a set of posed RGB images. Traditional approaches to 3D reconstruction rely on an intermediate representation of depth maps prior to estimating a full 3D model of a scene. We hypothesize that a direct regression to 3D is more effective. A 2D CNN extracts features from each image independently which are then back-projected and accumulated into a voxel volume using the camera intrinsics and extrinsics. After accumulation, a 3D CNN refines the accumulated features and predicts the TSDF values. Additionally, semantic segmentation of the 3D model is obtained without significant computation. This approach is evaluated on the Scannet dataset where we significantly outperform state-of-the-art baselines (deep multiview stereo followed by traditional TSDF fusion) both quantitatively and qualitatively. We compare our 3D semantic segmentation to prior methods that use a depth sensor since no previous work attempts the problem with only RGB input.

23
CoReNet: Coherent 3D scene reconstruction from a single RGB image
2020-04-27
Advances in deep learning techniques have allowed recent work to reconstruct the shape of a single object given only one RBG image as input. Building on common encoder-decoder architectures for this task, we propose three extensions: (1) ray-traced skip connections that propagate local 2D information to the output 3D volume in a physically correct manner; (2) a hybrid 3D volume representation that enables building translation equivariant models, while at the same time encoding fine object details without an excessive memory footprint; (3) a reconstruction loss tailored to capture overall object geometry. Furthermore, we adapt our model to address the harder task of reconstructing multiple objects from a single image. We reconstruct all objects jointly in one pass, producing a coherent reconstruction, where all objects live in a single consistent 3D coordinate frame relative to the camera and they do not intersect in 3D space. We also handle occlusions and resolve them by hallucinating the missing object parts in the 3D volume. We validate the impact of our contributions experimentally both on synthetic data from ShapeNet as well as real images from Pix3D. Our method improves over the state-of-the-art single-object methods on both datasets. Finally, we evaluate performance quantitatively on multiple object reconstruction with synthetic scenes assembled from ShapeNet objects.

24
Privacy-Preserving Image Features via Adversarial Affine Subspace Embeddings
2020-06-11
Many computer vision systems require users to upload image features to the cloud for processing and storage. These features can be exploited to recover sensitive information about the scene or subjects, e.g., by reconstructing the appearance of the original image. To address this privacy concern, we propose a new privacy-preserving feature representation. The core idea of our work is to drop constraints from each feature descriptor by embedding it within an affine subspace containing the original feature as well as adversarial feature samples. Feature matching on the privacy-preserving representation is enabled based on the notion of subspace-to-subspace distance. We experimentally demonstrate the effectiveness of our method and its high practical relevance for the applications of visual localization and mapping as well as face authentication. Compared to the original features, our approach makes it significantly more difficult for an adversary to recover private information.

25
Contact Area Detector using Cross View Projection Consistency for COVID-19 Projects
2020-08-18
The ability to determine what parts of objects and surfaces people touch as they go about their daily lives would be useful in understanding how the COVID-19 virus spreads. To determine whether a person has touched an object or surface using visual data, images, or videos, is a hard problem. Computer vision 3D reconstruction approaches project objects and the human body from the 2D image domain to 3D and perform 3D space intersection directly. However, this solution would not meet the accuracy requirement in applications due to projection error. Another standard approach is to train a neural network to infer touch actions from the collected visual data. This strategy would require significant amounts of training data to generalize over scale and viewpoint variations. A different approach to this problem is to identify whether a person has touched a defined object. In this work, we show that the solution to this problem can be straightforward. Specifically, we show that the contact between an object and a static surface can be identified by projecting the object onto the static surface through two different viewpoints and analyzing their 2D intersection. The object contacts the surface when the projected points are close to each other; we call this cross view projection consistency. Instead of doing 3D scene reconstruction or transfer learning from deep networks, a mapping from the surface in the two camera views to the surface space is the only requirement. For planar space, this mapping is the Homography transformation. This simple method can be easily adapted to real-life applications. In this paper, we apply our method to do office occupancy detection for studying the COVID-19 transmission pattern from an office desk in a meeting room using the contact information.

26
Image-to-Voxel Model Translation for 3D Scene Reconstruction and Segmentation
None
Objects class, depth, and shape are instantly reconstructed by a human looking at a 2D image. While modern deep models solve each of these challenging tasks separately, they struggle to perform simultaneous scene 3D reconstruction and segmentation. We propose a single shot image-to-semantic voxel model translation framework. We train a generator adversarially against a discriminator that verifies the object's poses. Furthermore, trapezium-shaped voxels, volumetric residual blocks, and 2D-to-3D skip connections facilitate our model learning explicit reasoning about 3D scene structure. We collected a SemanticVoxels dataset with 116k images, ground-truth semantic voxel models, depth maps, and 6D object poses. Experiments on ShapeNet and our SemanticVoxels datasets demonstrate that our framework achieves and surpasses state-of-the-art in the reconstruction of scenes with multiple non-rigid objects of different classes. We made our model and dataset publicly available

27
3D Scene Reconstruction from a Single Viewport
None
We present a novel approach to infer volumetric reconstructions from a single viewport, based only on an RGB image and a reconstructed normal image. To overcome the problem of reconstructing regions in 3D that are occluded in the 2D image, we propose to learn this information from synthetically generated high-resolution data. To do this, we introduce a deep network architecture that is specifically designed for volumetric TSDF data by featuring a specific tree net architecture. Our framework can handle a 3D resolution of $512^3$ by introducing a dedicated compression technique based on a modified autoencoder. Furthermore, we introduce a novel loss shaping technique for 3D data that guides the learning process towards regions where free and occupied space are close to each other. As we show in experiments on synthetic and realistic benchmark data, this leads to very good reconstruction results, both visually and in terms of quantitative measures.

28
Learning to Adapt Multi-View Stereo by Self-Supervision
2020-09-28
3D scene reconstruction from multiple views is an important classical problem in computer vision. Deep learning based approaches have recently demonstrated impressive reconstruction results. When training such models, self-supervised methods are favourable since they do not rely on ground truth data which would be needed for supervised training and is often difficult to obtain. Moreover, learned multi-view stereo reconstruction is prone to environment changes and should robustly generalise to different domains. We propose an adaptive learning approach for multi-view stereo which trains a deep neural network for improved adaptability to new target domains. We use model-agnostic meta-learning (MAML) to train base parameters which, in turn, are adapted for multi-view stereo on new domains through self-supervised training. Our evaluations demonstrate that the proposed adaptation method is effective in learning self-supervised multi-view stereo reconstruction in new domains.

29
GRF: Learning a General Radiance Field for 3D Representation and Rendering
2020-10-09
We present a simple yet powerful neural network that implicitly represents and renders 3D objects and scenes only from 2D observations. The network models 3D geometries as a general radiance field, which takes a set of 2D images with camera poses and intrinsics as input, constructs an internal representation for each point of the 3D space, and then renders the corresponding appearance and geometry of that point viewed from an arbitrary position. The key to our approach is to learn local features for each pixel in 2D images and to then project these features to 3D points, thus yielding general and rich point representations. We additionally integrate an attention mechanism to aggregate pixel features from multiple 2D views, such that visual occlusions are implicitly taken into account. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method can generate high-quality and realistic novel views for novel objects, unseen categories and challenging real-world scenes.

30
Polka Lines: Learning Structured Illumination and Reconstruction for Active Stereo
2020-11-26
Active stereo cameras that recover depth from structured light captures have become a cornerstone sensor modality for 3D scene reconstruction and understanding tasks across application domains. Existing active stereo cameras project a pseudo-random dot pattern on object surfaces to extract disparity independently of object texture. Such hand-crafted patterns are designed in isolation from the scene statistics, ambient illumination conditions, and the reconstruction method. In this work, we propose the first method to jointly learn structured illumination and reconstruction, parameterized by a diffractive optical element and a neural network, in an end-to-end fashion. To this end, we introduce a novel differentiable image formation model for active stereo, relying on both wave and geometric optics, and a novel trinocular reconstruction network. The jointly optimized pattern, which we dub "Polka Lines," together with the reconstruction network, achieve state-of-the-art active-stereo depth estimates across imaging conditions. We validate the proposed method in simulation and on a hardware prototype, and show that our method outperforms existing active stereo systems.

31
3D Scene Based Beam Selection for mmWave Communications
2019-11-19
In this paper, we present a novel framework of 3D scene based beam selection for mmWave communications that relies only on the environmental data and deep learning techniques. Different from other out-of-band side-information aided communication strategies, the proposed one fully utilizes the environmental information, e.g., the shape, the position, and even the materials of the surrounding buildings/cars/trees that are obtained from 3D scene reconstruction. Specifically, we build the neural networks with the input as point cloud of the 3D scene and the output as the beam indices. Compared with the LIDAR aided technique, the reconstructed 3D scene here is achieved from multiple images taken offline from cameras and thus significantly lowers down the cost and makes itself applicable for small mobile terminals. Simulation results show that the proposed 3D scene based beam selection can outperform the LIDAR method in terms of accuracy.

32
Learning to Recover 3D Scene Shape from a Single Image
2020-12-17
Despite significant progress in monocular depth estimation in the wild, recent state-of-the-art methods cannot be used to recover accurate 3D scene shape due to an unknown depth shift induced by shift-invariant reconstruction losses used in mixed-data depth prediction training, and possible unknown camera focal length. We investigate this problem in detail, and propose a two-stage framework that first predicts depth up to an unknown scale and shift from a single monocular image, and then use 3D point cloud encoders to predict the missing depth shift and focal length that allow us to recover a realistic 3D scene shape. In addition, we propose an image-level normalized regression loss and a normal-based geometry loss to enhance depth prediction models trained on mixed datasets. We test our depth model on nine unseen datasets and achieve state-of-the-art performance on zero-shot dataset generalization. Code is available at: https://git.io/Depth

33
A Pose-only Solution to Visual Reconstruction and Navigation
2021-03-02
Visual navigation and three-dimensional (3D) scene reconstruction are essential for robotics to interact with the surrounding environment. Large-scale scenes and critical camera motions are great challenges facing the research community to achieve this goal. We raised a pose-only imaging geometry framework and algorithms that can help solve these challenges. The representation is a linear function of camera global translations, which allows for efficient and robust camera motion estimation. As a result, the spatial feature coordinates can be analytically reconstructed and do not require nonlinear optimization. Experiments demonstrate that the computational efficiency of recovering the scene and associated camera poses is significantly improved by 2-4 orders of magnitude. This solution might be promising to unlock real-time 3D visual computing in many forefront applications.

34
NeuralRecon: Real-Time Coherent 3D Reconstruction from Monocular Video
2021-04-01
We present a novel framework named NeuralRecon for real-time 3D scene reconstruction from a monocular video. Unlike previous methods that estimate single-view depth maps separately on each key-frame and fuse them later, we propose to directly reconstruct local surfaces represented as sparse TSDF volumes for each video fragment sequentially by a neural network. A learning-based TSDF fusion module based on gated recurrent units is used to guide the network to fuse features from previous fragments. This design allows the network to capture local smoothness prior and global shape prior of 3D surfaces when sequentially reconstructing the surfaces, resulting in accurate, coherent, and real-time surface reconstruction. The experiments on ScanNet and 7-Scenes datasets show that our system outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of both accuracy and speed. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first learning-based system that is able to reconstruct dense coherent 3D geometry in real-time.

35
RetrievalFuse: Neural 3D Scene Reconstruction with a Database
2021-03-31
3D reconstruction of large scenes is a challenging problem due to the high-complexity nature of the solution space, in particular for generative neural networks. In contrast to traditional generative learned models which encode the full generative process into a neural network and can struggle with maintaining local details at the scene level, we introduce a new method that directly leverages scene geometry from the training database. First, we learn to synthesize an initial estimate for a 3D scene, constructed by retrieving a top-k set of volumetric chunks from the scene database. These candidates are then refined to a final scene generation with an attention-based refinement that can effectively select the most consistent set of geometry from the candidates and combine them together to create an output scene, facilitating transfer of coherent structures and local detail from train scene geometry. We demonstrate our neural scene reconstruction with a database for the tasks of 3D super resolution and surface reconstruction from sparse point clouds, showing that our approach enables generation of more coherent, accurate 3D scenes, improving on average by over 8% in IoU over state-of-the-art scene reconstruction.

36
TransformerFusion: Monocular RGB Scene Reconstruction using Transformers
2021-07-05
We introduce TransformerFusion, a transformer-based 3D scene reconstruction approach. From an input monocular RGB video, the video frames are processed by a transformer network that fuses the observations into a volumetric feature grid representing the scene; this feature grid is then decoded into an implicit 3D scene representation. Key to our approach is the transformer architecture that enables the network to learn to attend to the most relevant image frames for each 3D location in the scene, supervised only by the scene reconstruction task. Features are fused in a coarse-to-fine fashion, storing fine-level features only where needed, requiring lower memory storage and enabling fusion at interactive rates. The feature grid is then decoded to a higher-resolution scene reconstruction, using an MLP-based surface occupancy prediction from interpolated coarse-to-fine 3D features. Our approach results in an accurate surface reconstruction, outperforming state-of-the-art multi-view stereo depth estimation methods, fully-convolutional 3D reconstruction approaches, and approaches using LSTM- or GRU-based recurrent networks for video sequence fusion.

37
VolumeFusion: Deep Depth Fusion for 3D Scene Reconstruction
2021-08-19
To reconstruct a 3D scene from a set of calibrated views, traditional multi-view stereo techniques rely on two distinct stages: local depth maps computation and global depth maps fusion. Recent studies concentrate on deep neural architectures for depth estimation by using conventional depth fusion method or direct 3D reconstruction network by regressing Truncated Signed Distance Function (TSDF). In this paper, we advocate that replicating the traditional two stages framework with deep neural networks improves both the interpretability and the accuracy of the results. As mentioned, our network operates in two steps: 1) the local computation of the local depth maps with a deep MVS technique, and, 2) the depth maps and images' features fusion to build a single TSDF volume. In order to improve the matching performance between images acquired from very different viewpoints (e.g., large-baseline and rotations), we introduce a rotation-invariant 3D convolution kernel called PosedConv. The effectiveness of the proposed architecture is underlined via a large series of experiments conducted on the ScanNet dataset where our approach compares favorably against both traditional and deep learning techniques.

38
3D Reconstruction from public webcams
2021-08-21
We investigate the possibility of 3D scene reconstruction from two or more overlapping webcam streams. A large, and growing, number of webcams observe places of interest and are publicly accessible. The question naturally arises: can we make use of this free data source for 3D computer vision? It turns out that the task to reconstruct scene structure from webcam streams is very different from standard structure-from-motion (SfM), and conventional SfM pipelines fail. In the webcam setting there are very few views of the same scene, in most cases only the minimum of two. These viewpoints often have large baselines and/or scale differences, their overlap is rather limited, and besides unknown internal and external calibration also their temporal synchronisation is unknown. On the other hand, they record rather large fields of view continuously over long time spans, so that they regularly observe dynamic objects moving through the scene. We show how to leverage recent advances in several areas of computer vision to adapt SfM reconstruction to this particular scenario and reconstruct the unknown camera poses, the 3D scene structure, and the 3D trajectories of dynamic objects.

39
Semantic Dense Reconstruction with Consistent Scene Segments
2021-09-30
In this paper, a method for dense semantic 3D scene reconstruction from an RGB-D sequence is proposed to solve high-level scene understanding tasks. First, each RGB-D pair is consistently segmented into 2D semantic maps based on a camera tracking backbone that propagates objects' labels with high probabilities from full scans to corresponding ones of partial views. Then a dense 3D mesh model of an unknown environment is incrementally generated from the input RGB-D sequence. Benefiting from 2D consistent semantic segments and the 3D model, a novel semantic projection block (SP-Block) is proposed to extract deep feature volumes from 2D segments of different views. Moreover, the semantic volumes are fused into deep volumes from a point cloud encoder to make the final semantic segmentation. Extensive experimental evaluations on public datasets show that our system achieves accurate 3D dense reconstruction and state-of-the-art semantic prediction performances simultaneously.

40
Echo-Reconstruction: Audio-Augmented 3D Scene Reconstruction
2021-10-05
Reflective and textureless surfaces such as windows, mirrors, and walls can be a challenge for object and scene reconstruction. These surfaces are often poorly reconstructed and filled with depth discontinuities and holes, making it difficult to cohesively reconstruct scenes that contain these planar discontinuities. We propose Echoreconstruction, an audio-visual method that uses the reflections of sound to aid in geometry and audio reconstruction for virtual conferencing, teleimmersion, and other AR/VR experience. The mobile phone prototype emits pulsed audio, while recording video for RGB-based 3D reconstruction and audio-visual classification. Reflected sound and images from the video are input into our audio (EchoCNN-A) and audio-visual (EchoCNN-AV) convolutional neural networks for surface and sound source detection, depth estimation, and material classification. The inferences from these classifications enhance scene 3D reconstructions containing open spaces and reflective surfaces by depth filtering, inpainting, and placement of unmixed sound sources in the scene. Our prototype, VR demo, and experimental results from real-world and virtual scenes with challenging surfaces and sound indicate high success rates on classification of material, depth estimation, and closed/open surfaces, leading to considerable visual and audio improvement in 3D scenes (see Figure 1).

41
Learning Surface Parameterization for Document Image Unwarping
2021-09-29
In this paper, we present a novel approach to learn texture mapping for a 3D surface and apply it to document image unwarping. We propose an efficient method to learn surface parameterization by learning a continuous bijective mapping between 3D surface positions and 2D texture-space coordinates. Our surface parameterization network can be conveniently plugged into a differentiable rendering pipeline and trained using multi-view images and rendering loss. Recent work on differentiable rendering techniques for implicit surfaces has shown high-quality 3D scene reconstruction and view synthesis results. However, these methods typically learn the appearance color as a function of the surface points and lack explicit surface parameterization. Thus they do not allow texture map extraction or texture editing. By introducing explicit surface parameterization and learning with a recent differentiable renderer for implicit surfaces, we demonstrate state-of-the-art document-unwarping via texture extraction. We show that our approach can reconstruct high-frequency textures for arbitrary document shapes in both synthetic and real scenarios. We also demonstrate the usefulness of our system by applying it to document texture editing.

42
Differentiable Rendering with Perturbed Optimizers
2021-10-18
Reasoning about 3D scenes from their 2D image projections is one of the core problems in computer vision. Solutions to this inverse and ill-posed problem typically involve a search for models that best explain observed image data. Notably, images depend both on the properties of observed scenes and on the process of image formation. Hence, if optimization techniques should be used to explain images, it is crucial to design differentiable functions for the projection of 3D scenes into images, also known as differentiable rendering. Previous approaches to differentiable rendering typically replace non-differentiable operations by smooth approximations, impacting the subsequent 3D estimation. In this paper, we take a more general approach and study differentiable renderers through the prism of randomized optimization and the related notion of perturbed optimizers. In particular, our work highlights the link between some well-known differentiable renderer formulations and randomly smoothed optimizers, and introduces differentiable perturbed renderers. We also propose a variance reduction mechanism to alleviate the computational burden inherent to perturbed optimizers and introduce an adaptive scheme to automatically adjust the smoothing parameters of the rendering process. We apply our method to 3D scene reconstruction and demonstrate its advantages on the tasks of 6D pose estimation and 3D mesh reconstruction. By providing informative gradients that can be used as a strong supervisory signal, we demonstrate the benefits of perturbed renderers to obtain more accurate solutions when compared to the state-of-the-art alternatives using smooth gradient approximations.

43
Panoptic 3D Scene Reconstruction From a Single RGB Image
2021-11-03
Understanding 3D scenes from a single image is fundamental to a wide variety of tasks, such as for robotics, motion planning, or augmented reality. Existing works in 3D perception from a single RGB image tend to focus on geometric reconstruction only, or geometric reconstruction with semantic segmentation or instance segmentation. Inspired by 2D panoptic segmentation, we propose to unify the tasks of geometric reconstruction, 3D semantic segmentation, and 3D instance segmentation into the task of panoptic 3D scene reconstruction - from a single RGB image, predicting the complete geometric reconstruction of the scene in the camera frustum of the image, along with semantic and instance segmentations. We thus propose a new approach for holistic 3D scene understanding from a single RGB image which learns to lift and propagate 2D features from an input image to a 3D volumetric scene representation. We demonstrate that this holistic view of joint scene reconstruction, semantic, and instance segmentation is beneficial over treating the tasks independently, thus outperforming alternative approaches.

44
Deblur-NeRF: Neural Radiance Fields from Blurry Images
2021-11-29
Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) has gained considerable attention recently for 3D scene reconstruction and novel view synthesis due to its remarkable synthesis quality. However, image blurriness caused by defocus or motion, which often occurs when capturing scenes in the wild, significantly degrades its reconstruction quality. To address this problem, We propose Deblur-NeRF, the first method that can recover a sharp NeRF from blurry input. We adopt an analysis-by-synthesis approach that reconstructs blurry views by simulating the blurring process, thus making NeRF robust to blurry inputs. The core of this simulation is a novel Deformable Sparse Kernel (DSK) module that models spatially-varying blur kernels by deforming a canonical sparse kernel at each spatial location. The ray origin of each kernel point is jointly optimized, inspired by the physical blurring process. This module is parameterized as an MLP that has the ability to be generalized to various blur types. Jointly optimizing the NeRF and the DSK module allows us to restore a sharp NeRF. We demonstrate that our method can be used on both camera motion blur and defocus blur: the two most common types of blur in real scenes. Evaluation results on both synthetic and real-world data show that our method outperforms several baselines. The synthetic and real datasets along with the source code is publicly available at https://limacv.github.io/deblurnerf/

45
MonoScene: Monocular 3D Semantic Scene Completion
2021-12-01
MonoScene proposes a 3D Semantic Scene Completion (SSC) framework, where the dense geometry and semantics of a scene are inferred from a single monocular RGB image. Different from the SSC literature, relying on 2.5 or 3D input, we solve the complex problem of 2D to 3D scene reconstruction while jointly inferring its semantics. Our framework relies on successive 2D and 3D UNets bridged by a novel 2D-3D features projection inspiring from optics and introduces a 3D context relation prior to enforce spatio-semantic consistency. Along with architectural contributions, we introduce novel global scene and local frustums losses. Experiments show we outperform the literature on all metrics and datasets while hallucinating plausible scenery even beyond the camera field of view. Our code and trained models are available at https://github.com/cv-rits/MonoScene.

46
What's Behind the Couch? Directed Ray Distance Functions (DRDF) for 3D Scene Reconstruction
2021-12-08
We present an approach for full 3D scene reconstruction from a single unseen image. We train on dataset of realistic non-watertight scans of scenes. Our approach predicts a distance function, since these have shown promise in handling complex topologies and large spaces. We identify and analyze two key challenges for predicting such image conditioned distance functions that have prevented their success on real 3D scene data. First, we show that predicting a conventional scene distance from an image requires reasoning over a large receptive field. Second, we analytically show that the optimal output of the network trained to predict these distance functions does not obey all the distance function properties. We propose an alternate distance function, the Directed Ray Distance Function (DRDF), that tackles both challenges. We show that a deep network trained to predict DRDFs outperforms all other methods quantitatively and qualitatively on 3D reconstruction from single image on Matterport3D, 3DFront, and ScanNet.

47
Light field Rectification based on relative pose estimation
2022-01-29
Hand-held light field (LF) cameras have unique advantages in computer vision such as 3D scene reconstruction and depth estimation. However, the related applications are limited by the ultra-small baseline, e.g., leading to the extremely low depth resolution in reconstruction. To solve this problem, we propose to rectify LF to obtain a large baseline. Specifically, the proposed method aligns two LFs captured by two hand-held LF cameras with a random relative pose, and extracts the corresponding row-aligned sub-aperture images (SAIs) to obtain an LF with a large baseline. For an accurate rectification, a method for pose estimation is also proposed, where the relative rotation and translation between the two LF cameras are estimated. The proposed pose estimation minimizes the degree of freedom (DoF) in the LF-point-LF-point correspondence model and explicitly solves this model in a linear way. The proposed pose estimation outperforms the state-of-the-art algorithms by providing more accurate results to support rectification. The significantly improved depth resolution in 3D reconstruction demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed LF rectification.

48
Towards 3D Scene Reconstruction from Locally Scale-Aligned Monocular Video Depth
2022-02-03
Existing monocular depth estimation methods have achieved excellent robustness in diverse scenes, but they can only retrieve affine-invariant depth, up to an unknown scale and shift. However, in some video-based scenarios such as video depth estimation and 3D scene reconstruction from a video, the unknown scale and shift residing in per-frame prediction may cause the depth inconsistency. To solve this problem, we propose a locally weighted linear regression method to recover the scale and shift with very sparse anchor points, which ensures the scale consistency along consecutive frames. Extensive experiments show that our method can boost the performance of existing state-of-the-art approaches by 50% at most over several zero-shot benchmarks. Besides, we merge over 6.3 million RGBD images to train strong and robust depth models. Our produced ResNet50-backbone model even outperforms the state-of-the-art DPT ViT-Large model. Combining with geometry-based reconstruction methods, we formulate a new dense 3D scene reconstruction pipeline, which benefits from both the scale consistency of sparse points and the robustness of monocular methods. By performing the simple per-frame prediction over a video, the accurate 3D scene shape can be recovered.

49
Neural 3D Scene Reconstruction with the Manhattan-world Assumption
2022-05-05
This paper addresses the challenge of reconstructing 3D indoor scenes from multi-view images. Many previous works have shown impressive reconstruction results on textured objects, but they still have difficulty in handling low-textured planar regions, which are common in indoor scenes. An approach to solving this issue is to incorporate planer constraints into the depth map estimation in multi-view stereo-based methods, but the per-view plane estimation and depth optimization lack both efficiency and multi-view consistency. In this work, we show that the planar constraints can be conveniently integrated into the recent implicit neural representation-based reconstruction methods. Specifically, we use an MLP network to represent the signed distance function as the scene geometry. Based on the Manhattan-world assumption, planar constraints are employed to regularize the geometry in floor and wall regions predicted by a 2D semantic segmentation network. To resolve the inaccurate segmentation, we encode the semantics of 3D points with another MLP and design a novel loss that jointly optimizes the scene geometry and semantics in 3D space. Experiments on ScanNet and 7-Scenes datasets show that the proposed method outperforms previous methods by a large margin on 3D reconstruction quality. The code is available at https://zju3dv.github.io/manhattan_sdf.

50
READ: Large-Scale Neural Scene Rendering for Autonomous Driving
2022-05-11
Synthesizing free-view photo-realistic images is an important task in multimedia. With the development of advanced driver assistance systems~(ADAS) and their applications in autonomous vehicles, experimenting with different scenarios becomes a challenge. Although the photo-realistic street scenes can be synthesized by image-to-image translation methods, which cannot produce coherent scenes due to the lack of 3D information. In this paper, a large-scale neural rendering method is proposed to synthesize the autonomous driving scene~(READ), which makes it possible to synthesize large-scale driving scenarios on a PC through a variety of sampling schemes. In order to represent driving scenarios, we propose an {\omega} rendering network to learn neural descriptors from sparse point clouds. Our model can not only synthesize realistic driving scenes but also stitch and edit driving scenes. Experiments show that our model performs well in large-scale driving scenarios.

51
3D scene reconstruction from monocular spherical video with motion parallax
2022-06-14
In this paper, we describe a method to capture nearly entirely spherical (360 degree) depth information using two adjacent frames from a single spherical video with motion parallax. After illustrating a spherical depth information retrieval using two spherical cameras, we demonstrate monocular spherical stereo by using stabilized first-person video footage. Experiments demonstrated that the depth information was retrieved on up to 97% of the entire sphere in solid angle. At a speed of 30 km/h, we were able to estimate the depth of an object located over 30 m from the camera. We also reconstructed the 3D structures (point cloud) using the obtained depth data and confirmed the structures can be clearly observed. We can apply this method to 3D structure retrieval of surrounding environments such as 1) previsualization, location hunting/planning of a film, 2) real scene/computer graphics synthesis and 3) motion capture. Thanks to its simplicity, this method can be applied to various videos. As there is no pre-condition other than to be a 360 video with motion parallax, we can use any 360 videos including those on the Internet to reconstruct the surrounding environments. The cameras can be lightweight enough to be mounted on a drone. We also demonstrated such applications.

52
PhotoScene: Photorealistic Material and Lighting Transfer for Indoor Scenes
2022-07-02
Most indoor 3D scene reconstruction methods focus on recovering 3D geometry and scene layout. In this work, we go beyond this to propose PhotoScene, a framework that takes input image(s) of a scene along with approximately aligned CAD geometry (either reconstructed automatically or manually specified) and builds a photorealistic digital twin with high-quality materials and similar lighting. We model scene materials using procedural material graphs; such graphs represent photorealistic and resolution-independent materials. We optimize the parameters of these graphs and their texture scale and rotation, as well as the scene lighting to best match the input image via a differentiable rendering layer. We evaluate our technique on objects and layout reconstructions from ScanNet, SUN RGB-D and stock photographs, and demonstrate that our method reconstructs high-quality, fully relightable 3D scenes that can be re-rendered under arbitrary viewpoints, zooms and lighting.

53
NeurAR: Neural Uncertainty for Autonomous 3D Reconstruction with Implicit Neural Representations
2022-07-22
Implicit neural representations have shown compelling results in offline 3D reconstruction and also recently demonstrated the potential for online SLAM systems. However, applying them to autonomous 3D reconstruction, where a robot is required to explore a scene and plan a view path for the reconstruction, has not been studied. In this paper, we explore for the first time the possibility of using implicit neural representations for autonomous 3D scene reconstruction by addressing two key challenges: 1) seeking a criterion to measure the quality of the candidate viewpoints for the view planning based on the new representations, and 2) learning the criterion from data that can generalize to different scenes instead of a hand-crafting one. To solve the challenges, firstly, a proxy of Peak Signal-to-Noise Ratio (PSNR) is proposed to quantify a viewpoint quality; secondly, the proxy is optimized jointly with the parameters of an implicit neural network for the scene. With the proposed view quality criterion from neural networks (termed as Neural Uncertainty), we can then apply implicit representations to autonomous 3D reconstruction. Our method demonstrates significant improvements on various metrics for the rendered image quality and the geometry quality of the reconstructed 3D models when compared with variants using TSDF or reconstruction without view planning. Project webpage https://kingteeloki-ran.github.io/NeurAR/

54
NeuMesh: Learning Disentangled Neural Mesh-based Implicit Field for Geometry and Texture Editing
2022-07-25
Very recently neural implicit rendering techniques have been rapidly evolved and shown great advantages in novel view synthesis and 3D scene reconstruction. However, existing neural rendering methods for editing purposes offer limited functionality, e.g., rigid transformation, or not applicable for fine-grained editing for general objects from daily lives. In this paper, we present a novel mesh-based representation by encoding the neural implicit field with disentangled geometry and texture codes on mesh vertices, which facilitates a set of editing functionalities, including mesh-guided geometry editing, designated texture editing with texture swapping, filling and painting operations. To this end, we develop several techniques including learnable sign indicators to magnify spatial distinguishability of mesh-based representation, distillation and fine-tuning mechanism to make a steady convergence, and the spatial-aware optimization strategy to realize precise texture editing. Extensive experiments and editing examples on both real and synthetic data demonstrate the superiority of our method on representation quality and editing ability. Code is available on the project webpage: https://zju3dv.github.io/neumesh/.

55
Learning Reconstructability for Drone Aerial Path Planning
2022-09-21
We introduce the first learning-based reconstructability predictor to improve view and path planning for large-scale 3D urban scene acquisition using unmanned drones. In contrast to previous heuristic approaches, our method learns a model that explicitly predicts how well a 3D urban scene will be reconstructed from a set of viewpoints. To make such a model trainable and simultaneously applicable to drone path planning, we simulate the proxy-based 3D scene reconstruction during training to set up the prediction. Specifically, the neural network we design is trained to predict the scene reconstructability as a function of the proxy geometry, a set of viewpoints, and optionally a series of scene images acquired in flight. To reconstruct a new urban scene, we first build the 3D scene proxy, then rely on the predicted reconstruction quality and uncertainty measures by our network, based off of the proxy geometry, to guide the drone path planning. We demonstrate that our data-driven reconstructability predictions are more closely correlated to the true reconstruction quality than prior heuristic measures. Further, our learned predictor can be easily integrated into existing path planners to yield improvements. Finally, we devise a new iterative view planning framework, based on the learned reconstructability, and show superior performance of the new planner when reconstructing both synthetic and real scenes.

56
OmniNeRF: Hybriding Omnidirectional Distance and Radiance fields for Neural Surface Reconstruction
2022-09-27
3D reconstruction from images has wide applications in Virtual Reality and Automatic Driving, where the precision requirement is very high. Ground-breaking research in the neural radiance field (NeRF) by utilizing Multi-Layer Perceptions has dramatically improved the representation quality of 3D objects. Some later studies improved NeRF by building truncated signed distance fields (TSDFs) but still suffer from the problem of blurred surfaces in 3D reconstruction. In this work, this surface ambiguity is addressed by proposing a novel way of 3D shape representation, OmniNeRF. It is based on training a hybrid implicit field of Omni-directional Distance Field (ODF) and neural radiance field, replacing the apparent density in NeRF with omnidirectional information. Moreover, we introduce additional supervision on the depth map to further improve reconstruction quality. The proposed method has been proven to effectively deal with NeRF defects at the edges of the surface reconstruction, providing higher quality 3D scene reconstruction results.

57
MonoNeuralFusion: Online Monocular Neural 3D Reconstruction with Geometric Priors
2022-09-30
High-fidelity 3D scene reconstruction from monocular videos continues to be challenging, especially for complete and fine-grained geometry reconstruction. The previous 3D reconstruction approaches with neural implicit representations have shown a promising ability for complete scene reconstruction, while their results are often over-smooth and lack enough geometric details. This paper introduces a novel neural implicit scene representation with volume rendering for high-fidelity online 3D scene reconstruction from monocular videos. For fine-grained reconstruction, our key insight is to incorporate geometric priors into both the neural implicit scene representation and neural volume rendering, thus leading to an effective geometry learning mechanism based on volume rendering optimization. Benefiting from this, we present MonoNeuralFusion to perform the online neural 3D reconstruction from monocular videos, by which the 3D scene geometry is efficiently generated and optimized during the on-the-fly 3D monocular scanning. The extensive comparisons with state-of-the-art approaches show that our MonoNeuralFusion consistently generates much better complete and fine-grained reconstruction results, both quantitatively and qualitatively.

58
Snapshot of Algebraic Vision
2022-10-20
In this survey article, we present interactions between algebraic geometry and computer vision, which have recently come under the header of Algebraic Vision. The subject has given new insights in multiple view geometry and its application to 3D scene reconstruction, and carried a host of novel problems and ideas back into algebraic geometry.

59
An Exploration of Neural Radiance Field Scene Reconstruction: Synthetic, Real-world and Dynamic Scenes
2022-10-21
This project presents an exploration into 3D scene reconstruction of synthetic and real-world scenes using Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) approaches. We primarily take advantage of the reduction in training and rendering time of neural graphic primitives multi-resolution hash encoding, to reconstruct static video game scenes and real-world scenes, comparing and observing reconstruction detail and limitations. Additionally, we explore dynamic scene reconstruction using Neural Radiance Fields for Dynamic Scenes(D-NeRF). Finally, we extend the implementation of D-NeRF, originally constrained to handle synthetic scenes to also handle real-world dynamic scenes.

60
SceneRF: Self-Supervised Monocular 3D Scene Reconstruction with Radiance Fields
2022-12-05
3D reconstruction from 2D image was extensively studied, training with depth supervision. To relax the dependence to costly-acquired datasets, we propose SceneRF, a self-supervised monocular scene reconstruction method using only posed image sequences for training. Fueled by the recent progress in neural radiance fields (NeRF) we optimize a radiance field though with explicit depth optimization and a novel probabilistic sampling strategy to efficiently handle large scenes. At inference, a single input image suffices to hallucinate novel depth views which are fused together to obtain 3D scene reconstruction. Thorough experiments demonstrate that we outperform all recent baselines for novel depth views synthesis and scene reconstruction, on indoor BundleFusion and outdoor SemanticKITTI. Our code is available at https://astra-vision.github.io/SceneRF.

61
SSR-2D: Semantic 3D Scene Reconstruction from 2D Images
2023-02-07
Most deep learning approaches to comprehensive semantic modeling of 3D indoor spaces require costly dense annotations in the 3D domain. In this work, we explore a central 3D scene modeling task, namely, semantic scene reconstruction without using any 3D annotations. The key idea of our approach is to design a trainable model that employs both incomplete 3D reconstructions and their corresponding source RGB-D images, fusing cross-domain features into volumetric embeddings to predict complete 3D geometry, color, and semantics with only 2D labeling which can be either manual or machine-generated. Our key technical innovation is to leverage differentiable rendering of color and semantics to bridge 2D observations and unknown 3D space, using the observed RGB images and 2D semantics as supervision, respectively. We additionally develop a learning pipeline and corresponding method to enable learning from imperfect predicted 2D labels, which could be additionally acquired by synthesizing in an augmented set of virtual training views complementing the original real captures, enabling more efficient self-supervision loop for semantics. In this work, we propose an end-to-end trainable solution jointly addressing geometry completion, colorization, and semantic mapping from limited RGB-D images, without relying on any 3D ground-truth information. Our method achieves state-of-the-art performance of semantic scene reconstruction on two large-scale benchmark datasets MatterPort3D and ScanNet, surpasses baselines even with costly 3D annotations. To our knowledge, our method is also the first 2D-driven method addressing completion and semantic segmentation of real-world 3D scans.

62
NICER-SLAM: Neural Implicit Scene Encoding for RGB SLAM
2023-02-07
Neural implicit representations have recently become popular in simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), especially in dense visual SLAM. However, previous works in this direction either rely on RGB-D sensors, or require a separate monocular SLAM approach for camera tracking and do not produce high-fidelity dense 3D scene reconstruction. In this paper, we present NICER-SLAM, a dense RGB SLAM system that simultaneously optimizes for camera poses and a hierarchical neural implicit map representation, which also allows for high-quality novel view synthesis. To facilitate the optimization process for mapping, we integrate additional supervision signals including easy-to-obtain monocular geometric cues and optical flow, and also introduce a simple warping loss to further enforce geometry consistency. Moreover, to further boost performance in complicated indoor scenes, we also propose a local adaptive transformation from signed distance functions (SDFs) to density in the volume rendering equation. On both synthetic and real-world datasets we demonstrate strong performance in dense mapping, tracking, and novel view synthesis, even competitive with recent RGB-D SLAM systems.

63
UAVStereo: A Multiple Resolution Dataset for Stereo Matching in UAV Scenarios
2023-02-20
Stereo matching is a fundamental task for 3D scene reconstruction. Recently, deep learning based methods have proven effective on some benchmark datasets, such as KITTI and Scene Flow. UAVs (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles) are commonly utilized for surface observation, and their captured images are frequently used for detailed 3D reconstruction due to high resolution and low-altitude acquisition. At present, the mainstream supervised learning network requires a significant amount of training data with ground-truth labels to learn model parameters. However, due to the scarcity of UAV stereo matching datasets, the learning-based network cannot be applied to UAV images. To facilitate further research, this paper proposes a novel pipeline to generate accurate and dense disparity maps using detailed meshes reconstructed by UAV images and LiDAR point clouds. Through the proposed pipeline, this paper constructs a multi-resolution UAV scenario dataset, called UAVStereo, with over 34k stereo image pairs covering 3 typical scenes. As far as we know, UAVStereo is the first stereo matching dataset of UAV low-altitude scenarios. The dataset includes synthetic and real stereo pairs to enable generalization from the synthetic domain to the real domain. Furthermore, our UAVStereo dataset provides multi-resolution and multi-scene images pairs to accommodate a variety of sensors and environments. In this paper, we evaluate traditional and state-of-the-art deep learning methods, highlighting their limitations in addressing challenges in UAV scenarios and offering suggestions for future research. The dataset is available at https://github.com/rebecca0011/UAVStereo.git

64
Cross-Dimensional Refined Learning for Real-Time 3D Visual Perception from Monocular Video
2023-03-16
We present a novel real-time capable learning method that jointly perceives a 3D scene's geometry structure and semantic labels. Recent approaches to real-time 3D scene reconstruction mostly adopt a volumetric scheme, where a truncated signed distance function (TSDF) is directly regressed. However, these volumetric approaches tend to focus on the global coherence of their reconstructions, which leads to a lack of local geometrical detail. To overcome this issue, we propose to leverage the latent geometrical prior knowledge in 2D image features by explicit depth prediction and anchored feature generation, to refine the occupancy learning in TSDF volume. Besides, we find that this cross-dimensional feature refinement methodology can also be adopted for the semantic segmentation task. Hence, we proposed an end-to-end cross-dimensional refinement neural network (CDRNet) to extract both 3D mesh and 3D semantic labeling in real time. The experiment results show that the proposed method achieves state-of-the-art 3D perception efficiency on multiple datasets, which indicates the great potential of our method for industrial applications.

65
3D Video Object Detection with Learnable Object-Centric Global Optimization
2023-03-27
We explore long-term temporal visual correspondence-based optimization for 3D video object detection in this work. Visual correspondence refers to one-to-one mappings for pixels across multiple images. Correspondence-based optimization is the cornerstone for 3D scene reconstruction but is less studied in 3D video object detection, because moving objects violate multi-view geometry constraints and are treated as outliers during scene reconstruction. We address this issue by treating objects as first-class citizens during correspondence-based optimization. In this work, we propose BA-Det, an end-to-end optimizable object detector with object-centric temporal correspondence learning and featuremetric object bundle adjustment. Empirically, we verify the effectiveness and efficiency of BA-Det for multiple baseline 3D detectors under various setups. Our BA-Det achieves SOTA performance on the large-scale Waymo Open Dataset (WOD) with only marginal computation cost. Our code is available at https://github.com/jiaweihe1996/BA-Det.

66
VisFusion: Visibility-aware Online 3D Scene Reconstruction from Videos
2023-04-21
We propose VisFusion, a visibility-aware online 3D scene reconstruction approach from posed monocular videos. In particular, we aim to reconstruct the scene from volumetric features. Unlike previous reconstruction methods which aggregate features for each voxel from input views without considering its visibility, we aim to improve the feature fusion by explicitly inferring its visibility from a similarity matrix, computed from its projected features in each image pair. Following previous works, our model is a coarse-to-fine pipeline including a volume sparsification process. Different from their works which sparsify voxels globally with a fixed occupancy threshold, we perform the sparsification on a local feature volume along each visual ray to preserve at least one voxel per ray for more fine details. The sparse local volume is then fused with a global one for online reconstruction. We further propose to predict TSDF in a coarse-to-fine manner by learning its residuals across scales leading to better TSDF predictions. Experimental results on benchmarks show that our method can achieve superior performance with more scene details. Code is available at: https://github.com/huiyu-gao/VisFusion

67
Dehazing-NeRF: Neural Radiance Fields from Hazy Images
2023-04-22
Neural Radiance Field (NeRF) has received much attention in recent years due to the impressively high quality in 3D scene reconstruction and novel view synthesis. However, image degradation caused by the scattering of atmospheric light and object light by particles in the atmosphere can significantly decrease the reconstruction quality when shooting scenes in hazy conditions. To address this issue, we propose Dehazing-NeRF, a method that can recover clear NeRF from hazy image inputs. Our method simulates the physical imaging process of hazy images using an atmospheric scattering model, and jointly learns the atmospheric scattering model and a clean NeRF model for both image dehazing and novel view synthesis. Different from previous approaches, Dehazing-NeRF is an unsupervised method with only hazy images as the input, and also does not rely on hand-designed dehazing priors. By jointly combining the depth estimated from the NeRF 3D scene with the atmospheric scattering model, our proposed model breaks through the ill-posed problem of single-image dehazing while maintaining geometric consistency. Besides, to alleviate the degradation of image quality caused by information loss, soft margin consistency regularization, as well as atmospheric consistency and contrast discriminative loss, are addressed during the model training process. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms the simple combination of single-image dehazing and NeRF on both image dehazing and novel view image synthesis.

68
ENRICH: Multi-purposE dataset for beNchmaRking In Computer vision and pHotogrammetry
2023-04-01
The availability of high-resolution data and accurate ground truth is essential to evaluate and compare methods and algorithms properly. Moreover, it is often difficult to acquire real data for a given application domain that is sufficiently representative and heterogeneous in terms of scene representation, acquisition conditions, point of view, etc. To overcome the limitations of available datasets, this paper presents a new synthetic, multi-purpose dataset called ENRICH for testing photogrammetric and computer vision algorithms. Compared to existing datasets, ENRICH offers higher resolution images rendered with different lighting conditions, camera orientations, scales, and fields of view. Specifically, ENRICH is composed of three sub-datasets: ENRICH-Aerial, ENRICH-Square, and ENRICH-Statue, each exhibiting different characteristics. We show the usefulness of the proposed dataset on several examples of photogrammetry and computer vision-related tasks such as: evaluation of hand-crafted and deep learning-based local features, effects of ground control points (GCPs) configuration on the 3D accuracy, and monocular depth estimation.

69
PlaNeRF: SVD Unsupervised 3D Plane Regularization for NeRF Large-Scale Scene Reconstruction
2023-05-26
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) enable 3D scene reconstruction from 2D images and camera poses for Novel View Synthesis (NVS). Although NeRF can produce photorealistic results, it often suffers from overfitting to training views, leading to poor geometry reconstruction, especially in low-texture areas. This limitation restricts many important applications which require accurate geometry, such as extrapolated NVS, HD mapping and scene editing. To address this limitation, we propose a new method to improve NeRF's 3D structure using only RGB images and semantic maps. Our approach introduces a novel plane regularization based on Singular Value Decomposition (SVD), that does not rely on any geometric prior. In addition, we leverage the Structural Similarity Index Measure (SSIM) in our loss design to properly initialize the volumetric representation of NeRF. Quantitative and qualitative results show that our method outperforms popular regularization approaches in accurate geometry reconstruction for large-scale outdoor scenes and achieves SoTA rendering quality on the KITTI-360 NVS benchmark.

70
Occ-BEV: Multi-Camera Unified Pre-training via 3D Scene Reconstruction
2023-05-30
Multi-camera 3D perception has emerged as a prominent research field in autonomous driving, offering a viable and cost-effective alternative to LiDAR-based solutions. However, existing multi-camera algorithms primarily rely on monocular image pre-training, which overlooks the spatial and temporal correlations among different camera views. To address this limitation, we propose the first multi-camera unified pre-training framework called Occ-BEV, which involves initially reconstructing the 3D scene as the foundational stage and subsequently fine-tuning the model on downstream tasks. Specifically, a 3D decoder is designed for leveraging Bird's Eye View (BEV) features from multi-view images to predict the 3D geometric occupancy to enable the model to capture a more comprehensive understanding of the 3D environment. A significant benefit of Occ-BEV is its capability of utilizing a considerable volume of unlabeled image-LiDAR pairs for pre-training purposes. The proposed multi-camera unified pre-training framework demonstrates promising results in key tasks such as multi-camera 3D object detection and surrounding semantic scene completion. When compared to monocular pre-training methods on the nuScenes dataset, Occ-BEV shows a significant improvement of about 2.0% in mAP and 2.0% in NDS for multi-camera 3D object detection, as well as a 3% increase in mIoU for surrounding semantic scene completion. Codes are publicly available at https://github.com/chaytonmin/Occ-BEV.

71
BUOL: A Bottom-Up Framework with Occupancy-aware Lifting for Panoptic 3D Scene Reconstruction From A Single Image
2023-06-01
Understanding and modeling the 3D scene from a single image is a practical problem. A recent advance proposes a panoptic 3D scene reconstruction task that performs both 3D reconstruction and 3D panoptic segmentation from a single image. Although having made substantial progress, recent works only focus on top-down approaches that fill 2D instances into 3D voxels according to estimated depth, which hinders their performance by two ambiguities. (1) instance-channel ambiguity: The variable ids of instances in each scene lead to ambiguity during filling voxel channels with 2D information, confusing the following 3D refinement. (2) voxel-reconstruction ambiguity: 2D-to-3D lifting with estimated single view depth only propagates 2D information onto the surface of 3D regions, leading to ambiguity during the reconstruction of regions behind the frontal view surface. In this paper, we propose BUOL, a Bottom-Up framework with Occupancy-aware Lifting to address the two issues for panoptic 3D scene reconstruction from a single image. For instance-channel ambiguity, a bottom-up framework lifts 2D information to 3D voxels based on deterministic semantic assignments rather than arbitrary instance id assignments. The 3D voxels are then refined and grouped into 3D instances according to the predicted 2D instance centers. For voxel-reconstruction ambiguity, the estimated multi-plane occupancy is leveraged together with depth to fill the whole regions of things and stuff. Our method shows a tremendous performance advantage over state-of-the-art methods on synthetic dataset 3D-Front and real-world dataset Matterport3D. Code and models are available in https://github.com/chtsy/buol.

72
BAA-NGP: Bundle-Adjusting Accelerated Neural Graphics Primitives
2023-06-07
Implicit neural representation has emerged as a powerful method for reconstructing 3D scenes from 2D images. Given a set of camera poses and associated images, the models can be trained to synthesize novel, unseen views. In order to expand the use cases for implicit neural representations, we need to incorporate camera pose estimation capabilities as part of the representation learning, as this is necessary for reconstructing scenes from real-world video sequences where cameras are generally not being tracked. Existing approaches like COLMAP and, most recently, bundle-adjusting neural radiance field methods often suffer from lengthy processing times. These delays ranging from hours to days, arise from laborious feature matching, hardware limitations, dense point sampling, and long training times required by a multi-layer perceptron structure with a large number of parameters. To address these challenges, we propose a framework called bundle-adjusting accelerated neural graphics primitives (BAA-NGP). Our approach leverages accelerated sampling and hash encoding to expedite both pose refinement/estimation and 3D scene reconstruction. Experimental results demonstrate that our method achieves a more than 10 to 20 $\times$ speed improvement in novel view synthesis compared to other bundle-adjusting neural radiance field methods without sacrificing the quality of pose estimation. The github repository can be found here https://github.com/IntelLabs/baa-ngp.

73
GANeRF: Leveraging Discriminators to Optimize Neural Radiance Fields
2023-06-09
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have shown impressive novel view synthesis results; nonetheless, even thorough recordings yield imperfections in reconstructions, for instance due to poorly observed areas or minor lighting changes. Our goal is to mitigate these imperfections from various sources with a joint solution: we take advantage of the ability of generative adversarial networks (GANs) to produce realistic images and use them to enhance realism in 3D scene reconstruction with NeRFs. To this end, we learn the patch distribution of a scene using an adversarial discriminator, which provides feedback to the radiance field reconstruction, thus improving realism in a 3D-consistent fashion. Thereby, rendering artifacts are repaired directly in the underlying 3D representation by imposing multi-view path rendering constraints. In addition, we condition a generator with multi-resolution NeRF renderings which is adversarially trained to further improve rendering quality. We demonstrate that our approach significantly improves rendering quality, e.g., nearly halving LPIPS scores compared to Nerfacto while at the same time improving PSNR by 1.4dB on the advanced indoor scenes of Tanks and Temples.

74
Neural 3D Scene Reconstruction from Multiple 2D Images without 3D Supervision
2023-06-30
Neural 3D scene reconstruction methods have achieved impressive performance when reconstructing complex geometry and low-textured regions in indoor scenes. However, these methods heavily rely on 3D data which is costly and time-consuming to obtain in real world. In this paper, we propose a novel neural reconstruction method that reconstructs scenes using sparse depth under the plane constraints without 3D supervision. We introduce a signed distance function field, a color field, and a probability field to represent a scene. We optimize these fields to reconstruct the scene by using differentiable ray marching with accessible 2D images as supervision. We improve the reconstruction quality of complex geometry scene regions with sparse depth obtained by using the geometric constraints. The geometric constraints project 3D points on the surface to similar-looking regions with similar features in different 2D images. We impose the plane constraints to make large planes parallel or vertical to the indoor floor. Both two constraints help reconstruct accurate and smooth geometry structures of the scene. Without 3D supervision, our method achieves competitive performance compared with existing methods that use 3D supervision on the ScanNet dataset.

75
GAFAR: Graph-Attention Feature-Augmentation for Registration A Fast and Light-weight Point Set Registration Algorithm
2023-07-05
Rigid registration of point clouds is a fundamental problem in computer vision with many applications from 3D scene reconstruction to geometry capture and robotics. If a suitable initial registration is available, conventional methods like ICP and its many variants can provide adequate solutions. In absence of a suitable initialization and in the presence of a high outlier rate or in the case of small overlap though the task of rigid registration still presents great challenges. The advent of deep learning in computer vision has brought new drive to research on this topic, since it provides the possibility to learn expressive feature-representations and provide one-shot estimates instead of depending on time-consuming iterations of conventional robust methods. Yet, the rotation and permutation invariant nature of point clouds poses its own challenges to deep learning, resulting in loss of performance and low generalization capability due to sensitivity to outliers and characteristics of 3D scans not present during network training. In this work, we present a novel fast and light-weight network architecture using the attention mechanism to augment point descriptors at inference time to optimally suit the registration task of the specific point clouds it is presented with. Employing a fully-connected graph both within and between point clouds lets the network reason about the importance and reliability of points for registration, making our approach robust to outliers, low overlap and unseen data. We test the performance of our registration algorithm on different registration and generalization tasks and provide information on runtime and resource consumption. The code and trained weights are available at https://github.com/mordecaimalignatius/GAFAR/.

76
FrozenRecon: Pose-free 3D Scene Reconstruction with Frozen Depth Models
2023-08-10
3D scene reconstruction is a long-standing vision task. Existing approaches can be categorized into geometry-based and learning-based methods. The former leverages multi-view geometry but can face catastrophic failures due to the reliance on accurate pixel correspondence across views. The latter was proffered to mitigate these issues by learning 2D or 3D representation directly. However, without a large-scale video or 3D training data, it can hardly generalize to diverse real-world scenarios due to the presence of tens of millions or even billions of optimization parameters in the deep network. Recently, robust monocular depth estimation models trained with large-scale datasets have been proven to possess weak 3D geometry prior, but they are insufficient for reconstruction due to the unknown camera parameters, the affine-invariant property, and inter-frame inconsistency. Here, we propose a novel test-time optimization approach that can transfer the robustness of affine-invariant depth models such as LeReS to challenging diverse scenes while ensuring inter-frame consistency, with only dozens of parameters to optimize per video frame. Specifically, our approach involves freezing the pre-trained affine-invariant depth model's depth predictions, rectifying them by optimizing the unknown scale-shift values with a geometric consistency alignment module, and employing the resulting scale-consistent depth maps to robustly obtain camera poses and achieve dense scene reconstruction, even in low-texture regions. Experiments show that our method achieves state-of-the-art cross-dataset reconstruction on five zero-shot testing datasets.

